NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Vemurafenib Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of adult patients with BRAF V600 mutation-positive C43 00102a CDS
 unresectable or metastatic melanoma.
 *This applies to post 2012 indications only
 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Vemurafenib is administered daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops (1 cycle =
 28 days).

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Vemurafenib 960mg twice daily PO Continuous

 Take doses approximately 12 hours apart preferably with food. May be taken without food but taking both daily doses on an empty stomach
 should be avoided. Tablets should be swallowed whole with water. They should NOT be chewed or crushed.
 Missed Doses and Vomiting:
 If a dose is missed, it can be taken up to 4 hours prior to the next dose to maintain the twice daily regimen. Both doses should not be taken at
 the same time.
 In the case of vomiting after vemurafenib administration the patient should not take an additional dose of vemurafenib. The next prescribed
 dose should be taken at the usual time.
 Vemurafenib is commonly available as 240mg tablets.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  BRAF V600 mutation as demonstrated by a validated test method
  ECOG status 0-2
  Adequate haematological, hepatic and renal function

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to vemurafenib or to any of the excipients
  Concomitant treatment with any other anticancer therapy
  QT-interval longer than 500 milliseconds
  Pregnancy

 Published: 07/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Vemurafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 24/02/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributors: Dr Paul Donnellan, Page 1 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00102 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 CAUTION:
  When given before, during or following radiation treatment. Prescribers should be aware of
 the risk of potentiation of radiation toxicity.
  Uncontrolled electrolyte abnormalities (e.g. hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia)
  Wild type BRAF malignant melanoma

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  ECG/QT interval evaluation for patients at risk
  Dermatologic evaluation for other skin cancer
  Chest CT scan (included with metastatic melanoma staging)

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
  ECG every 4 weeks (prior to each cycle) for the first 12 weeks, then every 12 weeks and after
 dose modification.
  Dermatologic evaluation: at week 8 (assess for other skin cancers and new primary
 melanoma); monitoring beyond 8 weeks can be performed by the oncologist or dermatologist
 every 12 weeks

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Management of adverse drug reactions or QTc prolongation may require dose reduction;
 temporary interruption and/or treatment discontinuation (see Tables 1 and 3 below).
  Dose reduction below 480 mg twice daily is not recommended
  In the event the patient develops Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (cuSCC), it is
 recommended to continue the treatment without modifying the dose of vemurafenib.
  Dose escalation after dose reduction is generally not recommended unless under special
 circumstances (i.e. increased likelihood of clinical benefit for the dose increase and no safety
 concerns).

 Published: 07/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Vemurafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 24/02/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributors: Dr Paul Donnellan, Page 2 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00102 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 1: Dose modification schedule based on the grade of any adverse events
 Grade* Recommended dose modification
 Grade 1 or Grade 2 (tolerable) Maintain vemurafenib at a dose of 960 mg twice daily
 Grade 2 (intolerable) or Grade 3
 1st occurrence Interrupt treatment until grade 0 – 1. Resume dosing at 720 mg
 twice daily (or 480 mg twice daily if the dose has already been
 lowered).

 2nd occurrence or persistence after Interrupt treatment until grade 0 – 1. Resume dosing at 480 mg
 treatment interruption twice daily (or discontinue permanently if the dose has already
 been lowered to 480 mg twice daily

 3rd occurrence or persistence after Discontinue permanently
 2nd dose reduction
 Grade 4
 1st occurrence Discontinue permanently or interrupt vemurafenib treatment until
 grade 0 – 1.
 Resume dosing at 480 mg twice daily (or discontinue permanently
 if the dose has already been lowered to 480 mg twice daily)

 2nd occurrence or persistence of Discontinue permanently.
 any grade 4 after 1st dose
 reduction
 *(CTC-AE v4.0).

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of vemurafenib renal and hepatic impairment

 Renal impairment Hepatic impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Impairment level
 ≥ 30 No dose adjustment is needed Mild and No dose adjustment is needed
 moderate

 < 30 No need for dose adjustment Severe No need for dose adjustment is expected,
 is expected monitor liver biochemistry twice a week.

 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment
 is expected

 Published: 07/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Vemurafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 24/02/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributors: Dr Paul Donnellan, Page 3 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00102 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose modification schedule based on prolongation of the QT interval
 QTc value Recommended dose modification
 QTc>500 ms at baseline Treatment not recommended.
 QTc increase meets values of both > 500 Discontinue permanently
 ms and >60 ms change from pre-
 treatment values
 1st occurrence of QTc>500 ms during Temporarily interrupt treatment until QTc < 500ms.
 treatment and change from pre- Resume dosing at 720 mg twice daily (or 480 mg twice daily if
 treatment value remains <60 ms the dose has already been lowered).
 2nd occurrence of QTc>500 ms during Temporarily interrupt treatment until QTc < 500ms. Resume
 treatment and change from pre- dosing at 480 mg twice daily (or discontinue permanently if
 treatment value remains <60ms the dose has already been lowered to 480 mg twice daily).
 3rd occurrence of QTc>500 ms during Discontinue permanently
 treatment and change from pre-
 treatment value remains <60ms
 (CTC-AE v4.0)

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL
 As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting - Available
 on the NCCP website

 Vemurafenib : Minimal (Refer to local policy).

 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following documents:

  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during treatment and for at
 least 6 months after treatment.

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 Published: 07/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Vemurafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 24/02/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributors: Dr Paul Donnellan, Page 4 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00102 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Chapman et al. Improved survival with vemurafenib in melanoma with BRAF V600E mutation. N
 Engl J Med. 2011;364(26):2507-16.
 2. Sosman et al. Survival in BRAF V600-Mutant Advanced Melanoma Treated with Vemurafenib
 (BRIM-2). N Engl J Med. 2012; 366:707-14.
 3. Zelboraf (vemurafenib)-Important Safety Information from Roche Products (Ireland )Ltd. As
 approved by the HPRA Available at http://www.hpra.ie/docs/default-source/default-document-
 library/important-safety-information---zelboraf-(vemurafenib).pdf?sfvrsn=0
 4. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V5 2023. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 6. Zelboraf ® Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 27/03/2024. Accessed December
 2024 Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/zelboraf-epar-
 product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 07/03/13 Dr Paul Donnellan
 2 01/03/15 Updated Disease Monitoring Section Dr Maccon Keane
 3 25/11/2015 Inserted Use with Caution section. Updated Dr Maccon Keane
 Treatment and Dose Modification Section (renal
 and liver impairment), Adverse Effects
 (potentiation of radiation toxicity and pancreatitis)
 4 06/12/2017 Updated with new NCCP template. Updated Prof Maccon Keane
 Adverse Reactions
 5 08/01/2020 Reviewed. Update of adverse events. Prof Maccon Keane
 6 24/02/2025 Regimen reviewed. Updated eligibility and Prof Maccon Keane
 exclusions section. Updated renal and hepatic
 dose modifications table to align with Giraud et al
 2023. Updated other supportive care section.
 Regimen updated throughout in line with NCCP
 standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 07/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Vemurafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 24/02/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributors: Dr Paul Donnellan, Page 5 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00102 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
