NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Venetoclax Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) in the presence C91 00400a CDS
 of 17p deletion or TP53 mutation in adult patients who are 01/12/2018
 unsuitable for or have failed a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor.
 Treatment of CLL in the absence of 17p deletion or TP53 mutation C91 00400b CDS
 in adult patients who have failed both chemoimmunotherapy and a 01/12/2018
 B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

TREATMENT:
The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

Venetoclax is administered orally once a day with a starting dose of 20mg; this is increased every
seven days over a period of 5 weeks until a dose of 400mg is reached. Treatment should be continued
until disease progression or no longer tolerated by the patient.

The 5-week dose-titration schedule is designed to gradually reduce tumour burden (debulk) and
decrease the risk of tumour lysis syndrome (TLS)

 WEEK Venetoclax Dose (mg) Route Cycle
 1 20 PO* Continuously for 7 days
 2 50 PO* Continuously for 7 days
 3 100 PO* Continuously for 7 days
 4 200 PO* Continuously for 7 days
 5 400 PO* Continuous from week 5 onwards
 * Swallow whole with water and a meal
 During the dose-titration phase, venetoclax should be taken in the morning to facilitate laboratory monitoring.
 Missed doses: If a patient misses a dose of venetoclax within 8 hours of the time it is usually taken, the patient should take
 the missed dose as soon as possible on the same day.
 If a patient misses a dose by more than 8 hours, the patient should not take the missed dose and should resume the usual
 dosing schedule the following day.
 Vomiting: If a patient vomits following dosing, no additional dose should be taken that day. The next prescribed dose
 should be taken at the usual time the following day.
 Venetoclax is commonly available as 10mg, 50mg and 100mg film-coated tablets.
 Tablets should not be chewed, crushed, or broken before swallowing

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • ECOG 0-2
 • Adequate bone marrow function (ANC ≥1 x 109 cells/L; platelet count ≥40 x 109 cells/L;
 haemoglobin ≥80 g/L),

 Published: 13/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Venetoclax Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Date Last Reviewed: 03/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lymphoma and Other
 IHS Contributor: Dr Patrick Thornton
Lymphoproliferative Disorders Page 1 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00400
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Creatinine clearance ≥ 30mL/min
 • Adequate coagulation and hepatic function

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Haematologist working in the area of
 haematological malignancies

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 o Blood chemistry (potassium, uric acid, phosphorus, calcium, and creatinine)
 should be assessed and pre-existing abnormalities corrected.
 • Tumour burden assessment, including radiographic evaluation (i.e., CT scan to assess
 tumour lysis risk evaluation based on any lymph node >5cm required for all patients)
 • Determination of 17p and TP53 status
 • Virology screen -Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBcoreAb), C and HIV
 *Hepatitis B reactivation: See Adverse events/ Regimen specific complication

 Regular tests:
 Pre-dose:
 • FBC, renal and hepatic profile.
 • Uric acid
 • These should be checked prior to each subsequent dose increase during the titration
 phase.

 Post-dose:
 • For patients at risk of tumour lysis syndrome (TLS),
 o FBC, renal and liver profile should be monitored at 6 to 8 hours and at 24 hours
 after the first dose of venetoclax. Electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected
 promptly.
 o The next venetoclax dose should not be administered until the 24-hour blood
 chemistry results have been evaluated.

 The same monitoring schedule should be followed at the start of the 50 mg dose and then for patients
 who continue to be at risk, at subsequent dose increases

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.

 Published: 13/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Venetoclax Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Date Last Reviewed: 03/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lymphoma and Other
 IHS Contributor: Dr Patrick Thornton
Lymphoproliferative Disorders Page 2 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00400
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Dose modifications for tumour lysis syndrome (TLS):
 • If patient experiences blood chemistry changes suggestive of TLS, the following day’s
 venetoclax dose should be withheld.
 • If resolved within 24 to 48 hours of last dose, treatment with venetoclax can be resumed
 at the same dose.
 • For events of clinical TLS or blood chemistry changes requiring more than 48 hours to
 resolve, treatment should be resumed at a reduced dose (see Table 1). When resuming
 treatment after interruption due to TLS, the instructions for prevention of tumour lysis
 syndrome should be followed (See Supportive Care below).
 • For patients who have had a dosing interruption lasting more than 1 week during the first
 5 weeks of dose titration or more than 2 weeks when at the daily dose of 400 mg, TLS risk
 should be reassessed to determine if restarting at a reduced dose is necessary.

 Table 1: Dose modification of venetoclax TLS and other toxicities
 Dose at interruption (mg) Restart dose (mga )
 400 300
 300 200
 200 100
 100 50
 50 20
 20 10
 aThe modified dose should be continued for 1 week before increasing the dose.

 Haematological:
 Table 2: Dose modification of venetoclax in haematological toxicity
 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets Dose
 9
 (x10 /L)
 <1.0 Withhold treatment until toxicity has resolved to grade 1* or
 with infection or baseline level (recovery), therapy with venetoclax may be
 fever restarted at the same dose.
 <0.5 or <25 If the toxicity recurs, and for any subsequent occurrences, the
 dose reduction guidelines in Table 1 should be followed when
 resuming treatment with venetoclax following resolution. A
 larger dose reduction may occur at the discretion of the
 physician.
 For patients who require dose reductions to less than 100 mg
 for more than 2 weeks, discontinuation of venetoclax should be
 considered.
 *Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0

 Published: 13/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Venetoclax Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Date Last Reviewed: 03/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lymphoma and Other
 IHS Contributor: Dr Patrick Thornton
Lymphoproliferative Disorders Page 3 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00400
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Dose modification of venetoclax in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl Dose Level Dose
 (mL/min)
 ≥30 -90 No dose adjustment required but patients Mild No dose adjustment is recommended.
 with reduced renal function (CrCl < 80 Moderate A trend for increased adverse events
 ml/min) may require more intensive was observed in patients with
 prophylaxis and monitoring to reduce the moderate hepatic impairment, these
 risk of TLS at initiation and during the patients should be monitored more
 dose-titration phase). closely for signs of toxicity at initiation
 and during the dose-titration phase.
 <30 or Safety has not been established and a Severe A dose reduction of at least 50%
 patients recommended dose for these patients has throughout treatment is
 on not been determined. Venetoclax should recommended. Patients should be
 dialysis be administered to patients with severe monitored more closely for signs of
 renal impairment only if the benefit toxicity
 outweighs the risk and patients should be
 monitored closely for signs of toxicity due
 to increased risk of TLS.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 4: Dose Modification of venetoclax for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 3 or 4 Non-haematological
 toxicities
 First occurrence Withhold treatment until toxicity has resolved to grade 1 or baseline level
 (recovery), therapy with venetoclax may be restarted at the same dose.

 Second or subsequent occurrence Withhold treatment until toxicity has resolved to grade 1 or baseline level
 (recovery).
 The dose reduction guidelines in Table 1 should be followed when
 resuming treatment with venetoclax.
 A larger dose reduction may occur at the discretion of the physician.
 For patients who require dose reductions to less than 100 mg for more
 than 2 weeks, discontinuation of venetoclax should be considered.

 Dose modifications for use with CYP3A inhibitors

 Table 5: Management of potential venetoclax interactions with CYP3A inhibitors
 Steady daily dose
 Inhibitors Initiation and titration phase a (After titration phase)
 Strong CYP3A inhibitor Contraindicated Reduce the venetoclax dose by at least 75%
 Moderate CYP3A inhibitor Reduce the venetoclax dose by at least 50%
 a
 Avoid concomitant use of venetoclax with moderate CYP3A inhibitors at initiation and during the dose titration
 phase. Consider alternative medications or reduce the venetoclax dose as described in this table.
 Note Azole antifungal agents are CYP3A inhibitors. Consult the relevant SPC for further details

 Published: 13/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Venetoclax Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Date Last Reviewed: 03/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lymphoma and Other
 IHS Contributor: Dr Patrick Thornton
Lymphoproliferative Disorders Page 4 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00400
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Venetoclax: Minimal to Low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: No specific recommendations

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 • Tumour lysis prophylaxis (Refer to local policy).
 The prophylaxis measures listed below should be followed. More intensive measures should be
 employed as overall risk increases.
 o Hydration Therapy: Patients should be adequately hydrated during the dose-titration
 phase to reduce the risk of TLS. Patients should be instructed to drink plenty of water
 daily starting 2 days before and throughout the dose-titration phase. Patients should be
 particularly instructed to drink 1.5 to 2.0 L of water daily, 2 days prior to and the days of
 dosing at initiation and each subsequent dose increase. Intravenous fluids should be
 administered as indicated based on overall risk of TLS or for those who cannot maintain
 an adequate level of oral hydration.
 o Anti-hyperuricaemic agents: Should be administered 2 -3 days prior to starting treatment
 with venetoclax in patients with high uric acid levels or at risk of TLS and may be
 continued through the titration phase.
 o Hospitalisation: Based on physician assessment, some patients, especially those at
 greater risk of TLS, may require hospitalisation on the day of the first dose of venetoclax
 for more intensive prophylaxis and monitoring during the first 24 hours. Hospitalisation
 should be considered for subsequent dose increases based on reassessment of risk.
 • Antiviral prophylaxis (Refer to local policy).
 • PJP prophylaxis (Refer to local policy).
 • Women of childbearing potential: Women of childbearing potential must use a highly effective
 method of contraception while taking venetoclax. Women should avoid becoming pregnant while
 taking venetoclax and for at least 30 days after ending treatment. It is currently unknown whether
 venetoclax may reduce the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives, and therefore women using
 hormonal contraceptives should add a barrier method.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any
suspected adverse reactions.
 Published: 13/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Venetoclax Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Date Last Reviewed: 03/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lymphoma and Other
 IHS Contributor: Dr Patrick Thornton
Lymphoproliferative Disorders Page 5 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00400
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Tumour Lysis Syndrome (TLS): Venetoclax can cause rapid reduction in tumour, and thus poses a risk
 for TLS in the initial 5-week dose-titration phase. Changes in electrolytes consistent with TLS that
 require prompt management can occur as early as 6 to 8 hours following the first dose of venetoclax
 and at each dose increase. Patients with high tumour burden (e.g., any lymph node with a diameter
 ≥5 cm or high absolute lymphocyte count [ALC ≥25 x 109 /L]) are at greater risk of TLS when initiating
 venetoclax. Reduced renal function (creatinine clearance [CrCl] <80 ml/min) further increases the
 risk. The risk may decrease as tumour burden decreases with venetoclax treatment. The prophylaxis
 measures listed above under Supportive Care should be followed. More intensive measures should
 be employed as overall risk increases.
 • Neutropenia: Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia has been reported in patients treated with venetoclax.
 Complete blood counts should be monitored throughout the treatment period. Dose interruptions
 or reductions are recommended for patients with severe neutropenia. Serious infections, including
 sepsis with fatal outcome, have been reported. Monitoring of any signs and symptoms of infection
 is required. Suspected infections are to receive prompt treatment, including antimicrobials and dose
 interruption or reduction as appropriate.
 • Immunisation: The safety and efficacy of immunisation with live attenuated vaccines during or
 following venetoclax therapy have not been studied. Live vaccines should not be administered during
 treatment and thereafter until B-cell recovery.
 • Hepatitis B Reactivation:
 • Patients should be tested for both HBsAg and HBcoreAb as per local policy. If either test is positive,
 such patients should be treated with anti-viral therapy. (Refer to local infectious disease policy).
 These patients should be considered for assessment by hepatology.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Concomitant use of venetoclax with strong CYP3A inhibitors: At initiation and during the dose-
 titration phase is contraindicated due to increased risk for TLS. For patients who have completed
 the dose-titration phase and are on a steady daily dose of venetoclax, the venetoclax dose should
 be reduced by 75% when used concomitantly with strong CYP3A inhibitors. Patients should be
 monitored more closely for signs of toxicities and the dose may need to be further adjusted. The
 venetoclax dose that was used prior to initiating the CYP3A inhibitor should be resumed 2 to 3 days
 after discontinuation of the inhibitor
 • Concomitant use of venetoclax with moderate CYP3A inhibitors: At initiation and during the dose-
 titration phase should be avoided. Alternative treatments should be considered. If a moderate CYP3A
 inhibitor must be used, the initiation dose of venetoclax and the doses for the titration phase should
 be reduced by at least 50%. Patients should be monitored more closely for signs and symptoms of
 TLS. For patients who have completed the dose-titration phase and are on a steady daily dose of
 venetoclax, the venetoclax dose should be reduced by 50% when used concomitantly with moderate
 CYP3A inhibitors. Patients should be monitored more closely for signs of toxicities and the dose may
 need to be further adjusted. The venetoclax dose that was used prior to initiating the CYP3A inhibitor
 should be resumed 2 to 3 days after discontinuation of the inhibitor
 • Grapefruit products, Seville oranges, and starfruit (carambola) should be avoided during treatment
 with venetoclax as they contain inhibitors of CYP3A.
 • Concomitant use of venetoclax with P-gp and BCRP inhibitors: At initiation and during the dose-
 titration phase should be avoided; if a P-gp and BCRP inhibitor must be used, patients should be
 monitored closely for signs of toxicities.

 Published: 13/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Venetoclax Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Date Last Reviewed: 03/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lymphoma and Other
 IHS Contributor: Dr Patrick Thornton
Lymphoproliferative Disorders Page 6 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00400
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Concomitant use of venetoclax with strong or moderate CYP3A inducers: Should be avoided.
 Alternative treatments with less CYP3A induction should be considered as venetoclax efficacy may
 be reduced. Preparations containing St. John's wort are contraindicated during treatment with
 venetoclax, as efficacy may be reduced
 • Co-administration of bile acid sequestrants with venetoclax: Should be avoided as this may
 reduce the absorption of venetoclax. If co-administration is necessary the SmPC for the bile acid
 sequestrant should be followed to reduce the risk for an interaction, and venetoclax should be
 administered at least 4-6 hours after the sequestrant.
 • Co-administration of narrow therapeutic index P-gp, or BCRP substrates with Venetoclax: Should
 be avoided. If co-administration is necessary it should be used in caution.
 • Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Stilgenbauer S et al. Venetoclax in relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia with 17p
 deletion: a multicentre, open-label, phase 2 study.Lancet Oncol. 2016;17(6):768.
 2. Jones et al, Venetoclax (VEN) Monotherapy for Patients with Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)
 Who Relapsed after or Were Refractory to Ibrutinib or Idelalisib. Blood 2016 128:637 Available at
 http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/128/22/637?sso-checked=true
 3. Venclyxto®( Venetoclax) SmPC Accessed October 2020. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/venclyxto-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V5 2023. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

 From 20/05/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to suggest
 any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 15/10/2018 Dr Patrick Thornton
 Updated recommended dose modification in
 2 07/08/2019 hepatic impairment as per SmPC Dr Patrick Thornton
 update.Updated emetogenic potential
 Regimen review. Addition of table for Dose
 modifications for use with CYP3A inhibitors
 as per SmPC update.
 3 03/03/2021 Updated adverse events/regimen specific Dr Patrick Thornton
 complications with regard to serious
 infections and management of hepatitis B
 reactivation
 Updated emetogenic potential section with
 3a 27/11/2024 NCCP
 standard wording.
 4 20/05/2026 Amendment to review schedule. NCCP

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 13/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Venetoclax Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Date Last Reviewed: 03/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lymphoma and Other
 IHS Contributor: Dr Patrick Thornton
Lymphoproliferative Disorders Page 7 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00400
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
