NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Mifamurtide Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Mifamurtide can be used in combination with post-operative multi-agent C40, 00100a ODMS
 chemotherapy for the treatment of high-grade resectable non-metastatic C41
 osteosarcoma after macroscopically complete surgical resection, in
 children, adolescents and young adults. This treatment is an option to be
 discussed with the patient (or parent of a child).
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 The recommended dose of mifamurtide for all patients is 2 mg/m2 body surface area.

 It should be administered as adjuvant therapy, in combination with post-operative multi-agent
 chemotherapy, following resection and recovery from surgery (usually +/- 3 weeks post operatively): twice
 weekly at least 3 days apart for 12 weeks, followed by once-weekly treatments for an additional 24 weeks
 for a total of 48 infusions in 36 weeks.

 Treatment should continue to completion or until unacceptable toxicity occurs.

 Please Refer to NCCP regimen 00463 (MAP) Methotrexate (12000mg/m2) DOXOrubicin (37.5mg/m2/day) and
 CISplatin (60mg/m2) Therapy which is usually used in conjunction with Mifamurtide Therapy.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Weeks
 1 and 4 Mifamurtide 2mg/m2 IV infusion 50mL* NaCl 0.9% over 60 1-12 inclusive
 1 minutes 13-36 inclusive
 *The final volume will be greater than 50 ml as the required dose is added to 50mL 0.9% NaCl giving a total volume between
 50mL - 100mL.
 Mifamurtide must be reconstituted, filtered using the filter provided in packaging and further diluted using aseptic
 technique, prior to administration.
 Based on the liposomal nature of the product, use of an infusion set with an in-line filter during administration is not
 recommended.
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 Published: 01/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Mifamurtide Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Sarcoma IHS/ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00100 Dr Michael Capra, Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • Patients aged from 2 to 30 years of age.
 • Adequate haematological, hepatic and renal function.

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to mifamurtide or any of the excipients.
 • Metastatic disease at presentation.
 • Incomplete surgical resection.
 • Prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy other than pre-operative multiagent chemotherapy.

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
 • Echocardiogram: annually or according to local practice

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 1: Dose modification of mifamurtide in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Recommended dose Child Pugh Class Recommended dose
 ≥30 No dose adjustment A No dose adjustment necessary.
 necessary B However, as safety data in patients with
 moderate hepatic impairment is limited,
 caution when administering
 mifamurtide to patients with moderate
 hepatic impairment is recommended.
 *Severe No data available *Severe No data available
 Exercise caution Exercise caution

 *Continued monitoring of the kidney and liver function is recommended if mifamurtide is used beyond completion of
 chemotherapy until all therapy is completed.

 Published: 01/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Mifamurtide Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Sarcoma IHS/ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00100 Dr Michael Capra, Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Mifamurtide: Moderate (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Paracetamol and chlorphenamine may be utilised as a premedication, to prevent
fevers and chills. Corticosteroids, including dexAMETHasone, should be avoided (see Drug Interactions).

Table 2: Suggested Pre-medications prior to mifamurtide infusion
 Drugs Dose Route

 Paracetamol 1g PO 60 minutes prior to mifamurtide infusion

 Chlorphenamine 10mg IV bolus 60 minutes prior to mifamurtide infusion

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
 • Respiratory distress: In patients with a history of asthma or other chronic obstructive pulmonary
 disease, consideration should be given to administration of bronchodilators on a prophylactic
 basis. If a severe respiratory reaction occurs, administration of mifamurtide should be
 discontinued and appropriate treatment initiated.
 • Neutropenia: Episodes of neutropenic fever should be monitored and managed appropriately.
 Mifamurtide may be given during periods of neutropenia, but subsequent fever attributed to the
 treatment should be monitored closely. Fever or chills persisting for more than 8 hours after
 mifamurtide administration should be evaluated for sepsis.
 • Inflammatory response: Mifamurtide should be used with caution in patients with a history of
 autoimmune, inflammatory or other collagen diseases. During administration, patients should be
 monitored for unusual signs or symptoms, such as arthritis or synovitis, suggestive of
 uncontrolled inflammatory reactions.
 • Cardiovascular disorders: Patients with a history of venous thrombosis, vasculitis or unstable
 cardiovascular disorders should be closely monitored during administration. If symptoms are
 persistent and worsening, administration should be delayed or discontinued.

 Published: 01/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Mifamurtide Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Sarcoma IHS/ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00100 Dr Michael Capra, Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Gastrointestinal toxicity: Nausea, vomiting and loss of appetite are very common adverse
 reactions to mifamurtide. Gastrointestinal toxicity may be exacerbated when mifamurtide is
 used in combination with high dose, multi-agent chemotherapy and was associated with an
 increased use of parenteral nutrition.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.
 • Mifamurtide is contraindicated with concurrent use of:
 o Cyclosporin or other calcineurin inhibitors.
 o High-dose non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, cyclooxygenase inhibitors).
 • The administration of mifamurtide should be separate from the administration times of
 doxorubicin or other lipophilic medicinal products if used in the same chemotherapy regimen.
 • Because mifamurtide acts through stimulation of the immune system, the chronic or routine use
 of corticosteroids should be avoided during treatment with mifamurtide.

REFERENCES:
 1. Meyers PA, Schwartz CL, Krailo M et al. Osteosarcoma: A Randomized, Prospective Trial of the
 Addition of Ifosfamide and/or Muramyl Tripeptide to Cisplatin, Doxorubicin and High-Dose
 Methotrexate. Journal of Clinical Oncology 2005; 23(9): 2004-11.
 2. Meyers PA, Schwartz CL, Krailo M et al. Osteosarcoma: The Addition of Muramyl Tripeptide to
 Chemotherapy Improves Overall Survival – A Report from the Children’s Oncology Group. Journal
 of Clinical Oncology 2008; 26(4): 633-8.
 3. Bielack SS. Osteosarcoma: time to move on? Eur J Cancer. 46. England 2010. p. 1942-5.
 MEPACT ®Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed Mar 2021. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/mepact-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 From 20/05/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to suggest
 any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 Dr Michael Capra
 1 05/03/2013
 Dr Deirdre O’Mahony
 2 3/3/2015 Updated Tests section Dr Maccon Keane
 Reviewed- Clarified dosing in renal and Dr Michael Capra
 3 1/3/17
 hepatic impairment Prof Maccon Keane
 4 12/02/2019 Updated to new NCCP regimen template Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Amended treatment table,
 5 10/03/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 dose modification in hepatic impairment
 5a 08/05/2025 Update to ICD-10 code. NCCP
 Amendment to review schedule. Addition
 6 20/05/2026 NCCP
 of links in emetogenic potential section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Published: 01/03/2013
NCCP Regimen: Mifamurtide Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Sarcoma IHS/ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00100 Dr Michael Capra, Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
