NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Irinotecan Monotherapy- 21 days
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer as a single agent in C18 00213a N/A
 patients who have failed an established 5-fluorouracil containing treatment
 regimen.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Irinotecan is administered once every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
 develops.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is
 administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1 Irinotecan 350mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL NaCl 0.9% over Every 21 days
 90 minutes

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • ECOG 0-2

 CAUTION:
 • In patients known to be homozygous for UGT1A1*28 consideration may be given to a reduced
 irinotecan starting dose

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Chronic bowel disease and/or bowel obstruction
 • Hypersensitivity to irinotecan or to one of the excipients
 • Pregnancy and lactation
 • Bilirubin > 3 x ULN
 • Severe bone marrow failure
 • Impaired renal function

NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 7
 Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00213
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
 • FBC weekly
 • Renal and liver profile prior to each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

Haematological:
Table 1: Dose modification of irinotecan for haematological toxicity
 ANC (x 109/L) Platelets (x 109/L) Recommended dose
 ≥ 1.5 And ≥75 100% dose
 <1.5 Or <75 Delay until ANC ≥ 1.5 and platelets ≥ 75
 then resume at the same dose
 <0.5 And <25 Dose reduction of 15 to 20%
 Febrile neutropenia
 Grade 4* thrombocytopenia and leucopenia (<1.0 x 109/L)
 *NCI CTCAE grading

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
Table 2: Dose modification of irinotecan in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No dose reduction needed, In monotherapy: Blood bilirubin levels (up to 3 times ULN) in patients with performance
 however use with caution as status 2, should determine the starting dose of irinotecan. In these patients with
 no information in this setting. hyperbilirubinemia and prothrombin time greater than 50%, the clearance of irinotecan
 is decreased and therefore the risk of hematotoxicity is increased. Thus, weekly
 monitoring of complete blood counts should be conducted in this patient population.
 Bilirubin Recommended dose
 ≤ 1.5 x ULN 350mg/m2
 1.5-3 x ULN 200mg/m2
 > 3 x ULN Discontinue

Management of adverse events:
NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 7
 Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00213
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

Table 3: Dose Modification of irinotecan for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions* Recommended dose modification
 Non Haematological Toxicity ≥ Grade 3 Dose reduction of 15 to 20%
 At the start of a subsequent infusion of therapy, the dose of
 irinotecan, should be decreased according to the worst grade of
 adverse events observed in the prior infusion.
 Treatment should be delayed by 1-2 weeks to allow recovery from
 Any Adverse Event treatment-related adverse events.
 If not recovered after 2 weeks, consider discontinuing treatment.
 Treatment should be administered after appropriate recovery of
 all adverse events to grade 0 or 1 and when treatment-related
 diarrhoea is fully resolved.
 *NCI-CTCAE grading

SUPPORTIVE CARE:

EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Irinotecan : Moderate (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS:
Prophylactic atropine sulphate – see adverse effects below.
Atropine should not be used in patients with glaucoma. (See Adverse Effects/Regimen specific
complications below)

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Patients should be made aware of the risk of delayed diarrhoea occurring more than 24 hours after the
administration of irinotecan and at any time before the next cycle.
 • As soon as the first liquid stool occurs, the patient should start drinking large volumes of beverages
 containing electrolytes and an appropriate anti-diarrhoeal therapy must be initiated immediately.
 • The currently recommended anti-diarrhoeal treatment consists of high doses of loperamide (4 mg
 for the first intake and then 2 mg every 2 hours).
 • This therapy should continue for 12 hours after the last liquid stool and should not be modified.
 • In no instance should loperamide be administered for more than 48 consecutive hours at these
 doses, because of the risk of paralytic ileus, nor for less than 12 hours.
Patients should be warned about the potential for dizziness or visual disturbances which may occur within
24 hours following the administration of irinotecan, and advised not to drive or operate machinery if these
NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 7
 Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00213
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

symptoms occur.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
 • Acute cholinergic syndrome: If acute cholinergic syndrome appears (defined as early diarrhoea and
 various other symptoms such as sweating, abdominal cramping, lacrimation, myosis and salivation)
 atropine sulphate (0.25mg subcutaneously) should be administered unless clinically
 contraindicated. Caution should be exercised in patients with asthma. In patients who experienced
 an acute and severe cholinergic syndrome, the use of prophylactic atropine sulphate is
 recommended with subsequent doses of irinotecan. The dose of atropine sulphate may be
 repeated if required.
 • Diarrhoea - Irinotecan induced diarrhoea can be life threatening and requires immediate
 management.
 o Diarrhoea (early onset) - see acute cholinergic syndrome above.
 o Diarrhoea (late onset):
 - Irinotecan induced diarrhoea can be life threatening and requires immediate management.
 - In monotherapy, the median time of onset of the first liquid stool was on day 5 after the
 infusion of irinotecan.
 - Patients with an increased risk of diarrhoea are those who had previous abdominal/pelvic
 radiotherapy, those with baseline hyperleucocytosis, those with performance status ≥2
 and women.
 - In patients who experience severe diarrhoea, a reduction in dose is recommended for
 subsequent cycles.
 - A prophylactic broad-spectrum antibiotic should be given, when diarrhoea is associated
 with severe neutropenia (neutrophil count < 0.5 x 109/L).
 • Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated
 appropriately.
 • Gilbert’s Syndrome: Increases the risk of irinotecan-induced toxicity. A reduced initial dose should
 be considered for these patients
 • Respiratory disorders: Severe pulmonary toxicity has been reported rarely. Patients with risk factors
 should be monitored for respiratory symptoms before and during irinotecan therapy.
 • Cardiac disorders: Myocardial ischaemic events have been observed predominantly in patients with
 underlying cardiac disease, other known risk factors for cardiac disease, or previous cytotoxic
 chemotherapy.
 • Other: Since this medicinal product contains sorbitol, it is unsuitable in hereditary fructose
 intolerance.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • CYP enzyme inducers may increase the clearance of irinotecan thus decreasing its efficacy.
 • CYP enzyme inhibitors may decrease the clearance of irinotecan.
 Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.
REFERENCES:
 1. Cunningham D, Glimelius B. A phase III study of irinotecan (CPT-11) versus best supportive care in
 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have failed 5-fluorouracil therapy. V301 Study Group.
 Semin Oncol. 1999;26(1 Suppl 5):6-12.
NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 7
 Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00213
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 2. Van Cutsem E and Blijham GH. Irinotecan versus infusional 5-fluorouracil: a phase III study in
 metastatic colorectal cancer following failure on first-line 5-fluorouracil. V302 Study Group Semin
 Oncol. 1999;26(1 Suppl 5):13-20.
 3. Lal R, Dickson J, et al A randomized trial comparing defined-duration with continuous irinotecan until
 disease progression in fluoropyrimidine and thymidylate synthase inhibitor-resistant advanced
 colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2004;22:3023-31.
 4. Fuchs CS, Moore MR et al. Phase III comparison of two irinotecan dosing regimens in second-line
 therapy of metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2003;21(5):807-14.
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V4 2022. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 6. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
 7. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 8. Krens S D, Lassche,Jansman G F G A, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients
 with renal or hepatic impairment. Lancet Onco/2019; 20:e201-08. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-
 2045(19)30145-7
 9. Irinotecan (CAMPTO®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed April 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0822-212-001_04032021105821.pdf

 From 20/05/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer
 to the version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you
 wish to suggest any updates to this regimen, please contact
 oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 05/04/14 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 25/03/2016 Insertion of standard text re treatment Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated with new NCCP regimen
 3 18/04/2018 template. Standardisation of treatment Prof Maccon Keane
 table
 Inclusion of dose modification of
 irinotecan for haematological toxicity
 4 01/05/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 table.Updated dose management of
 irinotecan for adverse events table
 5 28/04/2021 Reviewed. Prof Maccon Keane
 Added caution for patients known to be
 6 13/01/2022 Prof Maccon Keane
 homozygous for UGT1A1*28
 Amendment to review schedule. NCCP
 7 20/05/2026 Addition of links in emetogenic potential
 section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 7
 Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00213
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
