NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Erlotinib Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 First-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non- C34 00219a CDS
 small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR activating mutations.
 Switch maintenance treatment in patients with locally advanced or C34 00219b CDS
 metastatic NSCLC with EGFR activating mutations and stable disease after
 first-line chemotherapy
 Treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC after C34 00219c CDS
 failure of at least one prior chemotherapy regimen.
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Erlotinib is to be taken orally daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 Erlotinib 150mg daily PO1 N/A Continuous

 1
 1 hour before or two hours after the ingestion of food
 Missed doses should not be replaced. Normal dosing should be resumed at the next scheduled dose.
 If a patient vomits within a few hours of taking the drug do not repeat the dose

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • EGFR activating mutation as demonstrated by a validated test method.
 • ECOG status 0-3.

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to erlotinib or any of the excipients
 • Severe hepatic impairment
 • Severe renal impairment

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, liver and renal profile
 Regular tests:

 Published: 05/04/2014
NCCP Regimen: Erlotinib Monotherapy Version number:6
 Date Last Reviewed:10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00219
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • FBC, liver and renal profile* every 60 days
 * See adverse Effects/Regimen Specific Complications

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
 • Any patient with a grade 3 or 4 toxicity not controlled by optimum supportive care will
 require a dose reduction as per table 1 below.

 Table 1: Dose reduction steps for erlotinib
 Level Erlotinib Dose
 Starting Dose 150mg daily
 1st Reduction 100mg daily
 2nd Reduction 50mg daily

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of erlotinib in renal impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 There is no data available to Erlotinib is eliminated by hepatic metabolism and biliary excretion. Dose reduction or
 support use of erlotinib in interruption of treatment should be considered if severe adverse reactions occur.
 patients with a CrCl< 15mL/min, The safety and efficacy of erlotinib has not been studied in patients with severe
 therefore erlotinib should not be hepatic dysfunction (AST/SGOT and ALT/SGPT> 5 x ULN).
 used if CrCl< 15mL/min Use of erlotinib in patients with severe hepatic dysfunction is not recommended

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of erlotinib for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Skin reactions
 Grade 1-2 None*
 Grade 3 Dose interruption may be required
 Grade 4 • Dose interruption for 7 to 14 days may be required.
 • Dose reduction required in resuming treatment.
 • Discontinuation may be necessary
 Diarrhoea
 Grade 3 If unresponsive to antidiarrhoeal medication for 24 hours then stop drug until
 resolution to grade <1 and then restart at next dose level down
 Grade 4 If unresponsive to antidiarrhoeal agent for >24 hours then discontinue drug
 Dehydration due to severe or persistent Erlotinib treatment must be stopped and appropriate measures should be
 cases of diarrhoea. taken to intensively rehydrate the patients intravenously.
 Acute onset of new and/or progressive Discontinue erlotinib pending diagnostic evaluation.
 unexplained pulmonary symptoms.
 Gastrointestinal Perforation Discontinue permanently
 Ulcerative keratitis Interrupt treatment or discontinue
 *Refer to local policy for the prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions

 Published: 05/04/2014
NCCP Regimen: Erlotinib Monotherapy Version number:6
 Date Last Reviewed:10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00219
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Erlotinib: Minimal to Low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required.

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 • Medication may be required for management of diarrhoea, e.g. loperamide (4mg at first onset
 followed by 2mg after each loose stool (max 16 mg /day)or see local policy
 • Current smokers should be advised to stop smoking as plasma concentrations of erlotinib in
 smokers as compared to non-smokers are reduced.
 • See local skin care policy for the prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin
 reactions.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
 • Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD): This has been reported in patients treated with EGFR inhibitors. In
 patients who develop acute onset of new and/or progressive unexplained pulmonary symptoms
 such as dyspnoea, cough and fever, erlotinib therapy should be interrupted pending diagnostic
 evaluation.
 • Diarrhoea, dehydration, electrolyte imbalance and renal failure: Requires treatment and in some
 cases dose reduction may be necessary. In more severe or persistent cases of diarrhoea, or cases
 leading to dehydration, particularly in groups of patients with aggravating risk factors (especially
 concomitant chemotherapy and other medications, symptoms or diseases or other predisposing
 conditions including advanced age), therapy should be interrupted and appropriate measures
 should be taken to intensively rehydrate the patients intravenously. In addition, renal function and
 serum electrolytes including potassium should be monitored in patients at risk of dehydration.
 • Hepatitis, hepatic failure: Rare cases of hepatic failure have been reported. For patients with pre-
 existing liver disease or concomitant hepatotoxic medications hepatic function should be closely
 monitored.
 • Gastrointestinal perforation: Patients receiving concomitant anti-angiogenic agents,
 corticosteroids, NSAIDs, and/or taxane based chemotherapy, or who have prior history of peptic
 ulceration or diverticular disease are at increased risk of gastrointestinal perforation. Erlotinib
 should be permanently discontinued in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation.

 Published: 05/04/2014
NCCP Regimen: Erlotinib Monotherapy Version number:6
 Date Last Reviewed:10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00219
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Bullous and exfoliative skin disorders: Treatment should be interrupted or discontinued if the
 patient develops severe bullous, blistering or exfoliating conditions. Patients with bullous and
 exfoliative skin disorders should be tested for skin infection and treated according to local
 management guidelines.
 • Ocular disorders: Ulcerative keratitis has been reported. Therapy should be interrupted or
 discontinued if patient presents with signs and symptoms suggestive of keratitis.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Potent inducers of CYP3A4 may reduce the efficacy of erlotinib.
 • Potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 may lead to increased toxicity of erlotinib. Patients should also be
 counselled with regard to consumption of grapefruit and grapefruit juice.
 • Concomitant treatment with substances that increase gastric pH (i.e. Proton pump inhibitors, H2
 antagonists and antacids) should be avoided, as erlotinib solubility and absorption may decrease.
 If the use of antacids or H2 antagonists is considered necessary during treatment with erlotinib,
 please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics for information on staggered dosing.
 • Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Shepherd FA, Rodrigues Pereira J, Ciuleanu T, et al. Erlotinib in Previously Treated Non-small-cell
 Lung Cancer. N Engl J Med2005;353(2):123-32.
 2. CappuzzoF,Ciuleanu T, et al. Erlotinib as maintenance treatment in advanced non-small cell lung
 cancer: a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2010;11(6):
 521-9.
 3. Zhou C, Wu YL et al. Erlotinib versus chemotherapy as first-line treatment for patients with
 advanced EGFR mutation-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (OPTIMAL, CTONG-0802): a
 multicentre, open-label, randomised, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol. 2011;(8):735-42.
 4. Erlotinib (Tarceva®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Feb 2021. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/tarceva-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V2 2019. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

 From 20/05/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to suggest
 any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 05/04/2014 Initial draft Dr Maccon Keane
 Update of indications based on change
 2 25/03/2016 to SmPC. Inclusion of standard wording Dr Maccon Keane
 re treatment
 Clarification of dosing with antacids and
 3 01/03/2017 Prof Maccon Keane
 H2 antagonists in Drug Interactions

 Published: 05/04/2014
NCCP Regimen: Erlotinib Monotherapy Version number:6
 Date Last Reviewed:10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00219
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Updated to new NCCP template
 Updated emetogenic potential and
 4 01/02/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 dosing recommendations for hepatic
 impairment
 Reviewed. Amended emetogenic
 5 10/03/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 potential.
 Amendment to review schedule. NCCP
 6 20/05/2026 Addition of links in emetogenic potential
 section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 05/04/2014
NCCP Regimen: Erlotinib Monotherapy Version number:6
 Date Last Reviewed:10/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00219
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
