NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Cabozantinib Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 The treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in adults following C64 00518a CDS
 prior VEGF targeted therapy. 02/01/2019
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patient’s individual clinical circumstances.

 Cabozantinib is to be taken orally once daily.

 Cycle frequency and duration:
 Treatment should continue until the patient experiences disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Cabozantinib 60mg once daily PO Continuous
 Patient should not eat two hours prior or one hour after taking a dose
 Missed doses: If a patient misses a dose, the missed dose should not be taken if it is less than 12 hours before the next dose
 Cabozantinib (Cabometyx®) is commonly available as 20mg, 40mg and 60mg film-coated tablets.
 Cabozantinib film-coated tablets (Cabometyx®) and cabozantinib hard capsules (Cometriq®) are not bioequivalent and should not be used
 interchangeably.

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indication as above
 • Advanced or metastatic renal-cell carcinoma with a clear cell component
 • ECOG 0-2
 • Patients must have received prior treatment with at least one VEGFR-targeting tyrosine kinase
 inhibitor
 • Adequate organ and marrow function

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to cabozantinib or any of the excipients
 • Previous therapy with an mTOR inhibitor or cabozantinib

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 Published: 02/01/2019
NCCP Regimen: Cabozantinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Date Last Reviewed: 01/07/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributors:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00518 Prof. Ray McDermott, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal, liver and bone profile
 • Blood glucose
 • Urinary protein
 • Thyroid function
 • Blood Pressure
 • ECG
 • Dental examination

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal, liver and bone profile monthly
 • Magnesium monthly
 • Urinary protein monthly
 • Thyroid function monthly
 • Blood pressure monthly
 • ECG as clinically indicated
 • Dental examination as clinically indicated*
 *See also Regimen specific complications re osteonecrosis of the jaw

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
 • Dose reductions are detailed in Table 1

Table 1: Dose reductions for cabozantinib
 Dose Level Dose
 Starting Dose 60mg
 First dose reduction 40mg
 Second dose reduction 20mg
 Third dose reduction Discontinue

 Published: 02/01/2019
NCCP Regimen: Cabozantinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Date Last Reviewed: 01/07/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributors:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00518 Prof. Ray McDermott, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of cabozantinib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/minute) Dose Severity Dose
 30-80 No dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B or Consider a starting dose 66% of the
 mild and moderate original dose, increase if tolerated
 < 30 No need for dose adjustment Child-Pugh C or Not recommended
 is expected severe
 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment
 is expected
 Renal and hepatic dose modification recommendations obtained from Giraud et al 2023.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose modification of cabozantinib for adverse events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 1 and Grade 2 adverse reactions Dose adjustment is usually not required.
 which are tolerable and easily managed Consider adding supportive care as indicated.
 Grade 2 adverse reactions which are Interrupt treatment until the adverse reaction resolves to Grade ≤ 1.
 intolerable and cannot be managed with Add supportive care as indicated.
 a dose reduction or supportive care Consider re-initiating at a reduced dose
 Grade 3 adverse reactions (except Interrupt treatment until the adverse reaction resolves to Grade ≤ 1.
 clinically nonrelevant laboratory Add supportive care as indicated.
 abnormalities) Re-initiate at a reduced dose
 Grade 4 adverse reactions (except Interrupt treatment.
 clinically nonrelevant laboratory Institute appropriate medical care.
 abnormalities) If adverse reaction resolves to Grade ≤ 1, re-initiate at a reduced dose.
 If adverse reaction does not resolve, permanently discontinue cabozantinib

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

 Cabozantinib: Minimal-Low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS:
 None usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 No specific recommendations

 Published: 02/01/2019
NCCP Regimen: Cabozantinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Date Last Reviewed: 01/07/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributors:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00518 Prof. Ray McDermott, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for full details of
 adverse effects.
 • Please note the NCCP National SACT Regimens do not provide
 information regarding black triangle (▼) status. Please refer to the relevant Summary of
 Product Characteristics (SmPC) for this information.

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 • As most events can occur early in the course of treatment, the physician should evaluate the
 patient closely during the first eight weeks of treatment to determine if dose modifications are
 warranted. Events that generally have early onset include hypocalcaemia, hypokalaemia,
 thrombocytopenia, hypertension, palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (PPES),
 proteinuria, and gastrointestinal (GI) events (abdominal pain, mucosal inflammation,
 constipation, diarrhoea, vomiting).
 • Hypertension: Hypertension has been observed with cabozantinib. Blood pressure should be
 well-controlled prior to initiating cabozantinib. During treatment with cabozantinib, all patients
 should be monitored for hypertension and treated as needed with standard anti-hypertensive
 therapy. In the case of persistent hypertension despite use of anti-hypertensives, the
 cabozantinib dose should be reduced. Cabozantinib should be discontinued if hypertension is
 severe and persistent despite anti-hypertensive therapy and dose reduction of cabozantinib.
 In case of hypertensive crisis, cabozantinib should be discontinued.
 • Perforations and fistulas: Serious gastrointestinal (GI) perforations and fistulas, sometimes
 fatal, have been observed with cabozantinib. Patients who have inflammatory bowel disease
 (e.g., Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, peritonitis, diverticulitis, or appendicitis), have tumour
 infiltration in the GI tract, or have complications from prior GI surgery (particularly when
 associated with delayed or incomplete healing) should be carefully evaluated before initiating
 cabozantinib therapy and subsequently they should be monitored closely for symptoms of
 perforations and fistulas including abscesses and sepsis. Persistent or recurring diarrhoea while
 on treatment may be a risk factor for the development of anal fistula. Cabozantinib should be
 discontinued in patients who experience a GI perforation or a fistula that cannot be adequately
 managed.
 • Thromboembolic events: Events of venous thromboembolism, including pulmonary embolism,
 and events of arterial thromboembolism have been observed with cabozantinib. Cabozantinib
 should be used with caution in patients who are at risk for, or who have a history of, these
 events. Cabozantinib should be discontinued in patients who develop an acute myocardial
 infarction or any other clinically significant arterial thromboembolic complication.
 • Haemorrhage: Severe haemorrhage has been observed with cabozantinib. Patients who have
 a history of severe bleeding prior to treatment initiation should be carefully evaluated before
 initiating cabozantinib therapy. Cabozantinib should not be administered to patients that have
 or are at risk for severe haemorrhage.

 Published: 02/01/2019
NCCP Regimen: Cabozantinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Date Last Reviewed: 01/07/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributors:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00518 Prof. Ray McDermott, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Proteinuria: Urine protein should be monitored regularly during cabozantinib treatment.
 Cabozantinib should be discontinued in patients who develop nephrotic syndrome.
 • Wound complications: Wound complications have been observed with cabozantinib.
 Cabozantinib treatment should be stopped at least 28 days prior to scheduled surgery,
 including dental surgery, if possible. The decision to resume cabozantinib therapy after surgery
 should be based on clinical judgment of adequate wound healing. Cabozantinib should be
 discontinued in patients with wound healing complications requiring medical intervention.
 • Prolongation of QT interval: Cabozantinib should be used with caution in patients with a
 history of QT interval prolongation, patients who are taking antiarrhythmics, or patients with
 relevant pre-existing cardiac disease, bradycardia, or electrolyte disturbances. When using
 cabozantinib, periodic monitoring with on-treatment ECGs and electrolytes (serum calcium,
 potassium, and magnesium) should be considered.
 • Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (PPES): This has been observed with
 cabozantinib. When PPES is severe, interruption of treatment with cabozantinib should be
 considered. Cabozantinib should be restarted with a lower dose when PPES has been resolved
 to grade 1.
 • Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome: Reversible Posterior
 Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome (RPLS), also known as Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy
 Syndrome (PRES), has been observed with cabozantinib. Cabozantinib should be discontinued
 in patients with RPLS/PRES.
 • Aneurysms and artery dissections: The use of VEGF pathway inhibitors in patients with or
 without hypertension may promote the formation of aneurysms and/or artery dissections.
 Before initiating cabozantinib, this risk should be carefully considered in patients with risk
 factors such as hypertension or history of aneurysm.
 • Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ): ONJ has been observed with cabozantinib. An oral examination
 should be performed prior to initiation of cabozantinib and periodically during cabozantinib
 therapy. Patients should be advised regarding oral hygiene practice. Cabozantinib treatment
 should be held at least 28 days prior to scheduled dental surgery or invasive dental procedures,
 if possible. Cabozantinib should be discontinued in patients who experience ONJ.
 • Excipient related warnings: Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance,
 the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take cabozantinib.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 Published: 02/01/2019
NCCP Regimen: Cabozantinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Date Last Reviewed: 01/07/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributors:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00518 Prof. Ray McDermott, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 REFERENCES:
 1. Choueiri TK, Escudier B, Powles T et al. Cabozantinib versus everolimus in advanced renal cell
 carcinoma (METEOR): final results from a randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial; Lancet oncol.2016;
 17(7): 917-927
 2. Choueiri TK, Escudier B, Powles T et al. Cabozantinib versus Everolimus in Advanced Renal-Cell
 Carcinoma New Engl J Med 2015; 373: 1814-1823
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Cabozantinib (Cabometyx®) Film-Coated Tablets. SmPC EMA. Last updated 27/02/2026. Accessed
 29/05/202624/12/2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/cabometyx-epar-product-information_en.pdf

 From 01/07/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to
 suggest any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 18/12/2018 Prof. Ray McDermott
 Amended hepatic impairment dose
 2 06/01/2021 modification, adverse effects and drug Prof. Maccon Keane
 interactions
 2a 14/09/2021 ATC code removed NCCP
 Template and NCCP Standardisation
 updates.
 Updates:
 - Regimen review schedule to ‘as
 required
 3 01/07/2026 Prof. Maccon Keane
 - Added magnesium to regular tests
 - Dental examination to baseline and
 regular tests
 - Renal and hepatic impairment to
 Giraud et al 2023

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Published: 02/01/2019
NCCP Regimen: Cabozantinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Date Last Reviewed: 01/07/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributors:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00518 Prof. Ray McDermott, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
