NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Panitumumab 6mg/kg Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Regimen reimbursement
 Code status*
 Treatment of adult patients with wild-type RAS metastatic colorectal C18-20 00225c N/A
 cancer (mCRC) as monotherapy after failure of fluoropyrimidine,
 oxaliplatin, and irinotecan containing chemotherapy regimens
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patient’s individual clinical circumstances.

 Panitumumab is administered on Day 1 of a 14-day cycle until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1 Panitumumab 6mg/kg IV infusion
 100mL NaCl 0.9% over 60 minutes Every 14 days
 using a 0.22 micron in-line filtera, b, c
 a
 Final concentration should not exceed 10mg/mL. For doses >1000mg, infuse in 150mL NaCl 0.9% over 90 minutes.
 b
 If the first infusion is tolerated, then subsequent infusions may be administered over 30 to 60 minutes.
 c
 Panitumumab is incompatible with glucose solutions.
 Ensure IV administration sets are flushed with NaCl 0.9% pre and post administration.
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indication as above
 • Wild type RAS tumours verified by a validated test method
 • ECOG 0-2
 • Adequate marrow reserve
 • Adequate renal and liver function

 CAUTIONS:
 • Renal impairment
 • Hepatic impairment

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to panitumumab or to any of the excipients
 • Patients with mutant RAS mCRC or unknown RAS mCRC status
 • Patients with interstitial pneumonitis or pulmonary fibrosis

 Published: 30/05/2015
NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg Therapy Version number: 6
 Review: 21/01/2031
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00225
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, liver and renal profile

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, liver and renal profile prior to each treatment
 • Post treatment: monthly electrolytes, magnesium, calcium for 2 months after last panitumumab
 treatment

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 1: Dose modification of panitumumab in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Severity Dose
 No need for dose adjustment is expected Mild and moderate No dose adjustment is needed
 Haemodialysis: No need for dose adjustment Severe No need for dose adjustment is expected
 is expected
 Dose modification recommendations for renal and hepatic impairment are obtained from Giraud et al. 2023.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 2: Dose modification schedule based on skin reactions
 Occurrence of skin Administration of Outcome Dose regulation
 symptom(s): ≥ grade 3 panitumumab
 Initial occurrence Withold 1 or 2 doses Improved (< grade 3) Continuing infusion at 100% of
 original dose
 Not recovered Discontinue
 2nd occurrence Withold 1 or 2 doses Improved (< grade 3) Continuing infusion at 80% of
 original dose
 Not recovered Discontinue
 3rd occurrence Withold 1 or 2 doses Improved (< grade 3) Continuing infusion at 60% of
 original dose
 Not recovered Discontinue
 th
 4 occurrence Discontinue - -

 Published: 30/05/2015
NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg Therapy Version number: 6
 Review: 21/01/2031
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00225
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 3: Dose Modification of Panitumumab for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Severity Recommended dose modification
 Mild or moderate Infusion rate should be reduced for the duration of that
 infusion and maintain this lower infusion rate in all subsequent
 Infusion reaction
 infusions
 Severe or life-threatening Permanently discontinue
 Interstitial lung disease - Permanently discontinue
 If a diagnosis of ulcerative keratitis is confirmed, treatment
 - with panitumumab should be interrupted or discontinued. If
 Ulcerative keratitis
 keratitis is diagnosed, the benefits and risks of continuing
 treatment should be carefully considered.

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting Available on
 the NCCP website

 Panitumumab: Low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
 available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS:
 Not usually required.

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 See local skin care policy for the prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions.

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.
 • Infusion-related reactions:
 o In cases of mild or moderate infusion-related reaction, the infusion rate may be decreased and
 maintained at the lower rate in all subsequent infusions.
 o Occurrence of a severe infusion-related reaction requires immediate and permanent
 discontinuation of panitumumab therapy and may necessitate emergency treatment.
 o Hypersensitivity reactions occurring more than 24 hours after infusion have been reported.
 Patients should be warned of the possibility of such a late onset and instructed to contact their
 physician if symptoms occur.
 • Respiratory disorders:
 o Interstitial lung disease (ILD) has been observed with EGFR inhibitors. Treatment should be
 withheld in the event of onset or worsening respiratory symptoms. If ILD is confirmed,
 treatment should be discontinued.
 Published: 30/05/2015
NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg Therapy Version number: 6
 Review: 21/01/2031
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00225
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Acute renal failure:
 o This has been observed in patients who develop severe diarrhoea and dehydration.
 • Skin reactions:
 o This is the main adverse reaction of panitumumab. Refer to local policy for skin care regime and
 to Table 2 under Dose Modifications for management of treatment if patient experiences skin
 reactions.
 • Ocular toxicities:
 o Patients presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of keratitis such as acute or worsening:
 eye inflammation, lacrimation, light sensitivity, blurred vision, eye pain and/or red eye should
 be referred promptly to an ophthalmology specialist. If a diagnosis of ulcerative keratitis is
 confirmed, treatment should be interrupted or discontinued. If keratitis is diagnosed, the
 benefits and risks of continuing treatment should be carefully considered.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information

 REFERENCES:
 1. Van Cutsem E, Peeters M, Siena S, et al: Open-label phase III trial of panitumumab plus best supportive
 care compared with best supportive care alone in patients with chemotherapy-refractory metastatic
 colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:1658-64.
 2. Amado RG, Wolf M, Peeters M, et al: Wild-type KRAS is required for panitumumab efficacy in patients
 with metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2008;26:1626-34.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or hepatic
 impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V6 2025. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Panitumumab (VECTIBIX®) 20mg/mL Concentrate for Solution for Infusion. Summary of Product
 Characteristics (SmPC). Last updated 07/05/2025. Accessed 22/10/2025. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vectibix
 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 05/04/2014 Prof Maccon Keane
 Change of title to Panitumumab 6mg/kg Therapy
 2 30/05/2015 Addition of new indications, drug interactions and Prof Maccon Keane
 references
 Amendment of indications to allow combination with
 3 11/11/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 FOLFIRI in first line as per SmPC
 Updated to new NCCP template
 4 26/11/2018 Removal of combination therapy indications (a & b) - Prof Maccon Keane
 separate NCCP regimens available for these
 5 10/11/2020 Reviewed Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Template and general formatting
 updates.Updates to ICD10 codes, exclusions, cautions,
 6 21/01/2026 renal and hepatic impairment to Giraud et al., Table 3: Prof Maccon Keane
 dose modifications for adverse events; regimen specific
 complications and references section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 30/05/2015
NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg Therapy Version number: 6
 Review: 21/01/2031
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00225
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
