NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PEMEtrexed Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status
 Maintenance treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell C34 00222a N/A
 lung cancer NSCLC other than predominantly squamous cell histology in
 patients who disease has not progressed immediately following platinum-
 based chemotherapy.
 Second line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic C34 00222b N/A
 NSCLC other than predominantly squamous cell histology.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 PEMEtrexed is administered once every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1 PEMEtrexed 500mg/m2 IV infusion 100mL NaCl 0.9% over 10 Every 21 days
 minutes
 Folic Acid or 350-1000 PO
 multivitamin containing microgramsb
 350-1000 micrograms
 folic acid
 b At least five doses of folic acid must be taken during the seven days preceding the first dose of PEMEtrexed, and dosing must continue during the full

 course of therapy and for 21 days after the last dose of PEMEtrexed.
 See Premedications for further treatment required.
 PEMEtrexed is physically incompatible with diluents containing calcium, including lactated Ringer’s injection and Ringer’s injection.
Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to PEMEtrexed, or any of the excipients
  Creatinine clearance < 45mL/min
  Breast feeding

 NCCP Regimen: PEMEtrexed Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 5
 Review: 07/10/2030
 Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00222
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

Haematological:
  Treatment may be delayed to allow sufficient time for recovery.
  Upon recovery patient should be retreated using the guidelines below.

 Table 1: Dose modification of for haematological toxicity of PEMEtrexed
 ANC x 109 /L Comment Platelets x 109 Comment
 /L
 ≥ 1.5 100% ≥ 100 Continue
 1.0 to ˂ 1.5 Consult with team, if clinically 75 - ˂ 100 Consult with team, if clinically well
 well, continue treatment consider continuation
 0.5 to ˂ 1.0 Delay until treatment recovery 50 - ˂ 75 Delay until treatment recovery
 ˂ 0.5 Delay until treatment recovery ˂ 50 Delay until treatment recovery and reduce
 and reduce PEMEtrexed by 25% PEMEtrexed by 25%
 Febrile neutropenia Delay until treatment recovery ˂ 50 with Delay until treatment recovery and reduce
 and reduce PEMEtrexed by 25% bleeding PEMEtrexed by 50%

 a
 CTC v2.0; NCI 1998 definition of ≥CTC Grade 2 bleeding

 NCCP Regimen: PEMEtrexed Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 5
 Review: 07/10/2030
 Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00222
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of PEMEtrexed in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose Impairment Dose
 level
 ≥45 No dose adjustment is Mild and No need for dose adjustment is expected
 needed Moderate
 <45 Not recommended Severe Not recommended, based on the risk of
 PEMEtrexed induced liver dysfunction
 Haemodialysis Not recommended

 Renal and hepatic dose modifications as per Giraud et al 2023

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of PEMEtrexed for Adverse Events
 Adverse effect Recommended dose modification
 Diarrhoea
 Grade ≥ 3 and any diarrhoea Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to
 irrespective of grade requiring patient’s pre-therapy value. Resume at 75% of previous dose
 hospitalisation for PEMEtrexed.
 Mucositis
 Grade ≥3 Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to
 patient’s pre-therapy value. Resume at 50% of previous dose
 for PEMEtrexed.
 Neurotoxicity
 Grade 2 Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to
 patient’s pre-therapy value.
 Resume at 100% dose for PEMEtrexed.

 Discontinue
 Grade ≥3
 or any recurrence of
 neurotoxicity
 Other
 Grade ≥3 Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to patient’s
 pre-therapy value. Resume at resume at 75% of previous dose
 PEMEtrexed.
 Grade ≥3 toxicity after 2 dose Consider discontinuation. Discuss with consultant.
 reductions
 Allergic reactions: Clinician decision. Consider discontinuation.

 Grade 3 ≥

 NCCP Regimen: PEMEtrexed Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 5
 Review: 07/10/2030
 Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00222
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting - Available
 on the NCCP website

PEMEtrexed: Low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
 available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS:
  A corticosteroid should be given the day prior to, on the day of, and the day after PEMEtrexed
 administration. The corticosteroid should be equivalent to 4 mg of dexAMETHasone administered orally
 twice a day.
  Intramuscular injection of vitamin B12 (hydroxycobolamin) (1,000 micrograms) in the week preceding the
 first dose of PEMEtrexed and once every three cycles thereafter. Subsequent vitamin B12 injections may be
 given on the same day as PEMEtrexed.

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
None usually required.

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for details.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:

 1. Hanna N et al. Randomized phase III trial of PEMEtrexed versus docetaxel in patients with non-small-cell
 lung cancer previously treated with chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol. 2004;22(9):1589-97.
 2. Ciuleanu T, Brodowicz T, Zielinski C, et al. Maintenance PEMEtrexed plus best supportive care versus
 placebo plus best supportive care for non-small-cell lung cancer: a randomised, double-blind, phase 3
 study. Lancet 2009;374:1432-40.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V6 2025. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 NCCP Regimen: PEMEtrexed Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 5
 Review: 07/10/2030
 Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00222
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

5. PEMEtrexed (ALIMTA®)Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 05/03/2025.Accessed April
 2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/alimta-epar-
 product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 15/04/2014 Prof Maccon Keane
 09/03/2016 Updated dosing in hepatic dysfunction Prof Maccon Keane
 2 and clarification of dose modifications
 for adverse events (table 1)
 18/04/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen Prof Maccon Keane
 template, updated emetogenic status
 3
 and adverse effects and drug
 interactions
 4 29/04/2020 Reviewed. Updated adverse events Prof Maccon Keane
 07/10/2025 Regimen reviewed. Updated Prof Maccon Keane
 haematological dose modifications –
 removed nadir blood counts.Updated
 renal and hepatic dose modifications to
 5 align with Giraud et al 2023. Updated
 Table 3: Dose Modification of
 PEMEtrexed for Adverse Events.
 Updated regimen in line with NCCP
 standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 NCCP Regimen: PEMEtrexed Monotherapy Published: 05/04/2014 Version number: 5
 Review: 07/10/2030
 Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00222
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
