NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Afatinib Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) TKI- naïve adult C34 00221a CDS
 patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer
 (NSCLC) with activating EGFR mutation(s).
 *This applies to post 2012 indications.
 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patient’s individual clinical circumstances.

 Afatinib is administered orally on a continuous basis once daily until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity develops.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Afatinib 40mg daily* PO without food at the same time each day. Continuous
 Tablet may be swallowed whole with water *Food should not
 be consumed for at least 3 hours before and at least 1 hour
 after taking this medicinal product.
 *DOSE ESCALATION:
 To a maximum of 50mg/day may be considered in patients who tolerate a 40mg/day dose (i.e. absence of diarrhoea, skin rash, stomatitis, and other Grade
 > 1 adverse reactions) in the first 3 weeks. The dose should not be escalated in any patients with a prior dose reduction.
 The maximum daily dose is 50mg.
 If swallowing of whole tablets is not possible, these can be dispersed in approximately 100 mL of noncarbonated drinking water. No other liquids should
 be used. The tablet should be dropped into the water without crushing it, and stirred occasionally for up to 15 minutes until it is broken up into very
 small particles. The dispersion should be consumed immediately. The glass should be rinsed with approximately 100 ml of water which should also be
 consumed.
 The dispersion can also be administered through a gastric tube.
 If a dose is missed it should be taken as soon as the patient remembers. However, if the next scheduled dose is due within 8 hours then the missed dose
 must be skipped.
 Patients should not take a double dose (two doses at the same time) to make up for a forgotten dose.
 If a patient vomits within a few hours of taking the drug do not repeat the dose.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  EGFR activating mutation status as demonstrated by a validated test method

 CAUTIONS:
  Underlying history of gastrointestinal ulceration.
  Underlying history of keratitis, ulcerative keratitis, severe dry eye

NCCP Regimen: Afatinib Monotherapy Published: 20/12/2013 Version number: 5
 Review: 21/03/2030
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate, Page 1 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00221 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to afatinib or any of the excipients
  Known pre-existing interstitial lung disease (ILD)
 Pregnancy or breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Cardiac function (LVEF using ECHO, MUGA scan) if clinically indicated

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile monthly
  Cardiac function (MUGA or ECHO) if clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  DOSE ESCALATION: see treatment table above for information regarding dose escalation

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 1: Dose modification of afatinib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose Dose
 ≥15 No dose adjustment is needed Child Pugh A and B No dose adjustment
 is needed.
 Child Pugh C No need for dose
 adjustment is
 <15 No need for dose adjustment is expected expected
 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment is expected
 Renal and hepatic as per Giraud et al.

NCCP Regimen: Afatinib Monotherapy Published: 20/12/2013 Version number: 5
 Review: 21/03/2030
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate, Page 2 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00221 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 2: Dose Modification of afatinib for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 1 or 2 No interruptiona or dose adjustment
 Grade 2 (prolongedb or intolerable) or Interrupt until reaction has resolved to Grade 0 or 1a.
 Grade ≥3 Resume with dose reduction by 10mg decrementsc.
 Interstitial Lung Disease Discontinue
 a
 In case of diarrhoea, anti-diarrhoeal medicinal products (e.g. loperamide) should be taken immediately and continued for
 persistent diarrhoea until loose bowel movements cease.
 b> 48 hours of diarrhoea and/or > 7 days of rash.
 c
 If patient cannot tolerate 20 mg/day, permanent discontinuation of afatinib should be considered.
 Refer to local policy for prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions.

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Afatinib: Minimal to Low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists. Information
 is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Emollients may be required to prevent dry skin (Refer to local policy)
  Counsel patient that they may they experience ocular adverse reactions (conjunctivitis, dry eye,
 keratitis) which may affect patients ability to drive or use machines
  Adequate hydration and medication may be required for management of diarrhoea
 Antidiarrhoeals (e.g. loperamide) should be initiated at first signs of diarrhoea and continued until
 loose bowel movements cease for 12 hours. If necessary their dose should be escalated to the
 highest recommended approved dose. (Refer to local policy)

 ADVERSE EFFECTS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

NCCP Regimen: Afatinib Monotherapy Published: 20/12/2013 Version number: 5
 Review: 21/03/2030
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate, Page 3 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00221 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 REFERENCES:
 1. Yang JC, Shih JY et al. Afatinib for patients with lung adenocarcinoma and epidermal growth factor
 receptor mutations (LUX-Lung 2): a phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol. 2012;13(5):539-48.
 2. Sequist LV, Yang JC, Yamamoto N, et al. Phase III Study of Afatinib or CISplatin Plus PEMEtrexed in
 Patients With Metastatic Lung Adenocarcinoma With EGFR Mutations. J Clin Oncol.
 2013;31(27):3327-34.
 3. Yang JC, Hirsh V, Schuler M, et al. Symptom Control and Quality of Life in LUX-Lung 3: A Phase III
 Study of Afatinib or CISplatin/PEMEtrexed in Patients With Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma With
 EGFR Mutations. J Clin. Oncol 2013;31(27):3342-50.
 4. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Accessed 04/03/2025. Available at:
 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 6. Afatinib (GIOTRIF®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 26/02/2025. Accessed
 27/02/2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/giotrif-
 epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 20/12/2013 Initial Draft Dr Linda Coate
 2 01/02/2016 Updated Adverse Events/Regimen Dr Linda Coate
 specific complications
 3 22/02/2018 Updated emetogenic status, dosing in Prof Maccon Keane
 renal and hepatic impairment and
 adverse effects as per SmPC. Updated
 with new NCCP regimen template
 4 26/02/2020 Reviewed. Update of emetogenic Prof Maccon Keane
 potential. adverse events.
 5 21/03/2025 Regimen Reviewed. Updated treatment Prof Maccon Keane
 table. Added caution section, updated
 exclusion section and testing
 requirements. Updated renal and
 hepatic impairment recommendations
 to align with Giraud et al. Adverse
 effects and drug interaction section
 amended as per NCCP standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Afatinib Monotherapy Published: 20/12/2013 Version number: 5
 Review: 21/03/2030
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate, Page 4 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00221 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
