NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Dabrafenib Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic C43 00237a CDS
 melanoma with a BRAF V600 mutation.
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Dabrafenib is to be taken orally twice daily and treatment is continued until disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Dabrafenib 150 mg twice daily PO Continuous

 Capsules should be swallowed whole with water.
 They should NOT be chewed or crushed and should NOT be mixed with food or liquids.
 Dabrafenib should be taken at least one hour before, or at least 2 hours after a meal.
 If a dose is missed, it should not be taken if it is < 6 hours until next dose.
 Dabrafenib should be taken at similar times each day, leaving an interval of approximately 12 hours between doses.
 Dabrafenib is commonly available as 50mg or 75mg hard capsules.

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • BRAF V600 mutation as demonstrated by a validated test method
 • ECOG status 0-2
 • Sequential treatment may be considered where patients are intolerant to a prescribed BRAF
 inhibitor and are subsequently changed to an alternative

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to dabrafenib or any of the excipients
 • Uncontrolled electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hypokalaemia, hypomagnesaemia,
 hypocalcaemia)
 • Uncontrolled hypertension
 • Pregnancy Dabrafenib reduces efficacy of hormonal contraceptives)
 • Breastfeeding
 • Wild type BRAF malignant melanoma
 • Treatment failure with a BRAF inhibitor

 CAUTIONS:

 Published: 10/01/2015
NCCP Regimen: Dabrafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 20/01/2031
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Jennifer Westrup, Dr
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma
 Fergal Kelleher, Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00237
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Carefully consider benefits and risks before administering dabrafenib to patients with a prior
 or concurrent cancer associated with RAS mutations.
 • Use with caution in patients with a congenital long QT syndrome, patients treated with a
 high cumulative dose of anthracycline therapy, patients taking medications that may prolong
 the QT interval, and those with electrolyte disturbances.

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 • ECG
 • Dermatologic evaluation for other skin cancer.

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile monthly.
 • ECG as clinically indicated.
 • Dermatologic evaluation monthly (assess for other skin cancers and new primary melanoma)
 and for up to 6 months following discontinuation of treatment.
 • Head and neck examination every 3 months.

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
 • Dose modifications are not recommended for adverse reactions of cutaneous squamous cell
 carcinoma (cuSCC) or new primary melanoma.
 • Therapy should be interrupted if patient’s temperature is ≥ 38.50C and they should be
 evaluated for signs and symptoms of infection.
 • No dose reductions are recommended for uveitis as long as effective local therapies can
 control ocular inflammation. If uveitis does not respond to local ocular therapy, withhold
 dabrafenib therapy until resolution of ocular inflammation and then restart dabrafenib
 reduced by one dose level (See Table 1)

 Table 1: Dose reduction steps for dabrafenib.
 Dose Level Dabrafenib Dose
 Full Dose 150mg BD
 1st Reduction 100mg BD
 2nd Reduction 75mg BD
 3rd Reduction 50mg BD
 Dose adjustment for dabrafenib below 50mg BD is not recommended
 Published: 10/01/2015
NCCP Regimen: Dabrafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 20/01/2031
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Jennifer Westrup, Dr
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma
 Fergal Kelleher, Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00237
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of dabrafenib in renal and hepatic impairment

 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose Impairment level Dose
 ≥30 No dose adjustment is needed Mild No dose adjustment is
 needed
 <30 No need for dose adjustment is
 expected
 Moderate and 50% of the original
 Severe dose may be
 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment is
 expected considered

 Renal and hepatic recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of dabrafenib for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 1 or 2 (Tolerable) Continue treatment and monitor as clinically indicated

 Grade 2 (Intolerable) Interrupt therapy until toxicity is grade 0-1 and reduce by one dose level
 or Grade 3 when resuming therapy
 Grade 4 Discontinue permanently or interrupt therapy until grade 0-1 and reduce by
 one dose level when resuming therapy.
 When an individual’s adverse reactions are under effective management, dose re-escalation following the same
 dosing steps as de-escalation may be considered. The dabrafenib dose should not exceed 150 mg twice daily

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti -Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Dabrafenib: Minimal to low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, anti-emetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following document:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 Published: 10/01/2015
NCCP Regimen: Dabrafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 20/01/2031
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Jennifer Westrup, Dr
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma
 Fergal Kelleher, Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00237
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 • Dabrafenib may decrease the efficacy of hormonal contraceptives. Women of childbearing
 potential should use an alternative effective method of contraception during therapy and for 2
 weeks following discontinuation.

ADVERSE EFFECTS:

 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
• Pyrexia: Patients with serious non-infectious febrile events have responded well to dose interruption
 and/or dose reduction and supportive care. Therapy with dabrafenib should be interrupted if the
 patient’s temperature is ≥ 38.5oC. Patients should be evaluated for signs and symptoms of infection.
 Dabrafenib can be restarted once the fever resolves with appropriate prophylaxis using non-steroidal
 anti-inflammatory medicinal products or paracetamol. If fever is associated with other severe signs
 or symptoms, dabrafenib should be restarted at a reduced dose once fever resolves and as clinically
 appropriate.
• Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (cuSCC): Cases of cuSCC have been reported in patients
 treated with dabrafenib. They should be managed by dermatological excision and dabrafenib
 treatment should be continued without any dose adjustment. Patients should be instructed to
 immediately inform their physician if new lesions develop. It is recommended that skin examination
 be performed prior to initiation of therapy with dabrafenib and monthly throughout treatment and
 for up to six months after treatment for cuSCC or until initiation of another anti-neoplastic therapy.
• New primary melanoma: Cases have been identified within the first 5 months of therapy. They were
 managed with excision and did not require treatment modification. Monitoring for skin lesions
 should occur as described for cuSCC.
• Non-cutaneous secondary/recurrent malignancy: Prior to initiation of treatment patients should
 undergo a head and neck examination with minimally visual inspection of oral mucosa and lymph
 node palpation, as well as chest/abdomen CT scan. During treatment patients should be monitored
 as clinically appropriate which may include a head and neck examination every 3 months and a
 chest/abdomen CT scan every 6 months. Anal examinations and pelvic examinations (for women) are
 recommended before and at the end of treatment or when considered clinically indicated. Following
 discontinuation of dabrafenib, monitoring for non-cutaneous secondary/recurrent malignancies
 should continue for up to 6 months or until initiation of another anti-neoplastic therapy.
• Renal failure: Patients should be routinely monitored for serum creatinine while on therapy. If
 creatinine increases, dabrafenib may need to be interrupted as clinically appropriate. Dabrafenib has
 not been studied in patients with renal insufficiency (defined as creatinine > 1.5 x ULN) therefore
 caution should be used in this setting.
• Visual impairment: Ophthalmologic reactions, including uveitis and iritis have been reported.
 Patients should be routinely monitored for visual signs and symptoms (such as change in vision,
 photophobia and eye pain) while on therapy.
• Pancreatitis: Unexplained abdominal pain should be promptly investigated to include measurement
 of serum amylase and lipase. Patients should be closely monitored when re-starting dabrafenib after
 an episode of pancreatitis.

 Published: 10/01/2015
NCCP Regimen: Dabrafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 20/01/2031
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Jennifer Westrup, Dr
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma
 Fergal Kelleher, Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00237
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
1. Ascierto P, Minor D et al. Phase II Trial (BREAK-2) of the BRAF Inhibitor Dabrafenib (GSK2118436) in
 Patients with Metastatic Melanoma. J Clin Oncol 2013; 31:3205-3211.
2. Hauschild A, Grab JJ et al. Dabrafenib in BRAF-mutated metastatic melanoma: a multicentre, open-
 label, phase 3 randomised controlled trial. Lancet, 2012: 380;358365.
3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
5. Dabrafenib (Tafinlar®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed December 2025. Last updated
 04/11/2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/tafinlar-epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 Dr Jennifer Westrup, Dr
 1 10/01/2015
 Fergal Kelleher
 Review-Updated ECOG status, dose
 modifications re uveitis and third dose
 2 11/01/2017 reduction as per SmPC Prof Maccon Keane
 Removed QT prolongation section from
 Adverse Events as per updated SmPC
 Updated to new NCCP template
 3 16/01/2019 Updated treatment table and adverse Prof Maccon Keane
 reactions
 Removed black triangle status as per
 4 15/04/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 SmPC update
 Amended eligibility, regular tests,
 5 22/01/2021 emetogenic potential and drug Prof Maccon Keane
 interactions.
 Regimen reviewed. Updated exclusions.
 Updated cautions section.Updated
 6 20/01/2026 regular tests. Updated Table 2 to align Prof Maccon Keane
 with Giraud et al 2023. Addition of other
 supportive care section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 10/01/2015
NCCP Regimen: Dabrafenib Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 20/01/2031
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Jennifer Westrup, Dr
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma
 Fergal Kelleher, Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00237
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
