NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Enzalutamide Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of adult men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate C61 00233a CDS
 cancer whose disease has progressed on or after docetaxel therapy.
 Treatment of adult men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate C61 00233b CDS
 cancer who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic after failure of
 androgen deprivation therapy in whom chemotherapy is not yet clinically
 indicated
 The treatment of adult men with high-risk non-metastatic castration- C61 00233c N/A
 resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC)
 *This is for post 2012 indications only

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Enzalutamide is administered as a single oral daily dose until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
 develops.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Enzalutamide 160mg once daily PO Continuous
 The capsules should not be chewed, dissolved or opened but should be swallowed whole with water, and can be taken with or
 without food.
 If a dose is missed at the usual time, the prescribed dose should be taken as close as possible to the usual time.
 If a patient misses a dose for a whole day, treatment should be resumed the following day with the usual daily dose.
 Medical castration with an LHRH analogue should be continued during treatment of patients not surgically castrated.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG status
 o Metastatic CRPC: 0-2
 o Non-metastatic CRPC : 0-1

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to enzalutamide or any of the excipients
  Severe hepatic impairment
  Uncontrolled hypertension
  Patients suffering from fructose intolerance

NCCP Regimen: Enzalutamide Published: 18/01/2016
 Version number: 7
Monotherapy Review: 27/01/2030
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Miriam O’Connor,
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Dr Ray McDermott, Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00233
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile.
  Blood pressure, ECG in patients at risk of QT prolongation.
  INR for patients on warfarin.

 Regular tests:
  4 weekly FBC, renal and liver profile as clinically indicated
  Blood pressure as clinically indicated
  ECG, creatinine as clinically indicated
  Weekly INR tests if patient is on warfarin until stable warfarin dose established

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:

 Table 1: Dose modification of enzalutamide in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose No dose adjustment is needed
 ≥30 No dose adjustment is needed.

 <30 No need for dose adjustment is
 expected

 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment is
 expected

 Renal and hepatic dose modifications taken from Giraud et al 2023

NCCP Regimen: Enzalutamide Published: 18/01/2016
 Version number: 7
Monotherapy Review: 27/01/2030
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Miriam O’Connor,
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Dr Ray McDermott, Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00233
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 2: Dose modification of enzalutamide for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Intolerable or ≥ Grade 3 Interrupt therapy for 7 days or until symptoms resolved to ≤ grade 2, then treatment
 may be resumed at the same dose or a reduced dose (120mg or 80mg) if warranted.
 Seizures Discontinue
 Severe hypertension Interrupt therapy until hypertension has been controlled.
 Posterior reversible Discontinue
 encephalopathy syndrome
 (PRES)

 Concomitant use with strong CYP2C8 inhibitors:
  The concomitant use of strong CYP2C8 inhibitors should be avoided if possible.
  If patients must be co-administered a strong CYP2C8 inhibitor, the dose of enzalutamide should be
 reduced to 80mg once daily.
  If co-administration of the strong CYP2C8 inhibitor is discontinued, the enzalutamide dose should be
 returned to the dose used prior to initiation of the strong CYP2C8 inhibitors.

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL
  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting - Available
 on the NCCP website

 Minimal (Refer to local policy).
 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
 available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 Enzalutamide may have a moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines as psychiatric and
 neurologic events including seizures have been reported. Patients with a history of seizures or other
 predisposing factors should be advised of the risk of driving or operating machines.

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

NCCP Regimen: Enzalutamide Published: 18/01/2016
 Version number: 7
Monotherapy Review: 27/01/2030
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Miriam O’Connor,
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Dr Ray McDermott, Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00233
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Beer TM, Armstrong AJ et al. Enzalutamide in metastatic prostate cancer before chemotherapy. N Engl J
 Med. 2014;371:424-33
 2. Scher HI, Fizazi K et al. Increased survival with Enzalutamide in prostate cancer after chemotherapy. N
 Engl J Med. 2012; 367:1187-1197.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 4. Hussain M et al. Enzalutamide in Men with Nonmetastatic, Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer. N Engl
 J Med. 2018 Jun 28;378(26):2465-2474. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1800536.
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V5 2023. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 6. Enzalutamide (Xtandi®) SmPC EMA. Accessed October 2024. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/xtandi-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 10/1/2015 Dr Miriam O Connor
 2 01/01/2016 Inclusion of second licensed and funded Dr Ray McDermott
 indication 00233b
 3 28/06/2016 Amended requirement for 4 weekly tests to be Dr Ray McDermott
 done as clinically indicated.
 Deleted requirement for blood pressure to be
 checked every 2 weeks for first 12 weeks and
 then every 4 weeks
 4 20/06/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen template Prof Maccon Keane
 Clarified dosing with concomitant use with
 strong CYP2C8 inhibitors
 5 04/09/2019 Inclusion of new indication Prof Maccon Keane
 6 28/07/2021 Reviewed. Added to regular tests and Table 2 Prof Maccon Keane
 (PRES). Updated adverse effects (enzymes
 induction and hypersensitivity)
 7 27/01/2025 Regimen reviewed. Updated renal and hepatic Prof Maccon Keane
 dose modifications table to align with Giraud et
 al 2023

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Enzalutamide Published: 18/01/2016
 Version number: 7
Monotherapy Review: 27/01/2030
 ISMO Contributor: Dr Miriam O’Connor,
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Dr Ray McDermott, Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00233
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
