NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Intrathecal Methotrexate for CNS prophylaxis in GTN

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 Central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis in patients with high risk D39 00249a Hospital
 gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN).
 Central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis in patients with low risk D39 00249b Hospital
 gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) with lung metastases.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Intrathecal methotrexate is administered on Day 1 and repeated every 14 days for a total of 3 doses.

 Low risk GTN with lung metastases: Administration of intrathecal methotrexate occurs during the first 3
 methotrexate courses (see regimen 00246).

 High risk GTN (all patients): Administration of intrathecal methotrexate usually coincides with the EMA
 (etoposide, methotrexate and DACTINomycin) treatment for the high risk patients (see regimen 00248).

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1 Methotrexate 12.5mg Intrathecal n/a Every 14 days for 3 doses
 2 Folinic acid 15mg PO 24 hrs after start of methotrexate Every 14 days for 3 doses
 Refer to NCCP Guidance on the Safe Use of Intrathecal Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Cancer
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/safetyreview/itcguidance.pdf

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to methotrexate or any of the excipients

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

NCCP Regimen: Intrathecal Methotrexate Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 3
 Review: 22/10/2026
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 3
NCCP Regimen Code: 00249
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Serum human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) using a validated test method

 Regular tests:
  FBC renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
  Serum hCG/blood levels (using a validated test method) should be done on day one of
 each cycle or more frequently if required.

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL: Low (Refer to local policy).

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required.

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations.

 ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
 The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
 details.

  Neutropenia: There is some systemic absorption of intrathecal chemotherapy.
 This may be further complicated by systemic therapy if given concurrently or by poor marrow
 tolerance due to previous therapy. Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly
 and treated aggressively.
  Renal Dysfunction: Methotrexate, given by any route, should be given with special caution if the
 creatinine clearance is less than 30 mL/minute with all subsequent doses determined based on
 hematologic and mucosal tolerance for the first dose given.
  Precautions for Intrathecal Administration: Refer to local policy on Intrathecal Therapy.

NCCP Regimen: Intrathecal Methotrexate Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 3
 Review: 22/10/2026
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 3
NCCP Regimen Code: 00249
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Newlands ES, Holden L, Seckl MJ, McNeish I, Strickland S, Rustin GJ. Management of brain
 metastases in patients with high-risk gestational trophoblastic tumors J Reprod Med. 2002
 Jun;47(6):465-71
 2. NCCP National Clinical Guideline (Draft) - Diagnosis, staging and treatment of patients with
 Gestational Trophoblastic Disease. July 2021.
 3. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
 4. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V3 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 6. Methotrexate 50mg/2ml Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed Oct 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0822-206-002_19052021104201.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 01/02/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 22/02/2018 Updated with new NCCP Regimen Prof Maccon Keane
 Template
 3 22/10/2021 Reviewed. Updated treatment Prof Maccon Keane
 section (clarification of GTN risk).
 Updated hCG testing (baseline and
 regular tests).

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Intrathecal Methotrexate Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 3
 Review: 22/10/2026
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 3
NCCP Regimen Code: 00249
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
