NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Regorafenib Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of adult patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who C18 00244a CDS
 have been previously treated with, or are not considered candidates for,
 available therapies. These include fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy,
 an anti-VEGF therapy and an anti-EGFR therapy
 Treatment of adult patients with unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal C26 00244b CDS
 stromal tumours (GIST) who progressed on or are intolerant to prior
 treatment with imatinib and sunitinib
 *This applies to post 2012 indications only
 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Regorafenib is taken once daily for 21 days followed by 7 days off therapy.
 This 28 day period is considered a treatment cycle.
 Treatment is continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle
 1-21 Regorafenib 160mg daily PO Repeat every 28 days

 Regorafenib should be taken at the same time each day,with or without food.
 The tablets should be swallowed whole with water after a light meal that contains less than 30% fat.
 An example of a light (low-fat) meal would include 1 portion of cereal (about 30g), 1 glass of skimmed milk, 1 slice of toast with jam, 1 glass of apple
 juice, and 1 cup of coffee or tea (520 calories, 2g fat).
 If a dose is missed, then it should be taken on the same day as soon as the patient remembers.
 The patient should not take two doses on the same day to make up for a missed dose.
 In case of vomiting after regorafenib administration, the patient should not take additional tablets.
 Regorafenib is commonly available as 40mg tablets.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG status 0-1
  Adequate bone marrow, renal and liver function

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to regorafenib or any of the excipients
  Unstable angina or new onset angina (within 3 months), recent MI, cardiac failure
  Severe hepatic impairment
  Pregnancy and lactation

NCCP Regimen: Regorafenib Monotherapy Published: 01/10/2015 Version number: 5
 Review: 25/03/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributors: Dr Greg Leonard, Prof Page 1 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00244 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 CAUTION:
  In patients with hypersensitivity to any drugs in the same class

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Thyroid function test
  Lipase, amylase as clinically indicated
  Blood pressure
  ECG/QT interval evaluation for patients at risk.

 Regular tests:
  FBC, and renal profile
  Liver profile every 2 weeks for first 2 months and then monthly or as clinically indicated
  Thyroid function test, lipase, amylase as clinically indicated
  Close monitoring of INR in patients receiving warfarin
  Blood pressure weekly for first 6 weeks of therapy, then prior to each cycle or as clinically
 indicated
  ECG and heart rate monitor for cardiotoxicity as required

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
  Dose interruptions and/or dose reductions may be required based on individual safety and
 tolerability.
  Dose modifications are to be applied in 40mg (one tablet) steps.
  The lowest recommended daily dose is 80mg.
  The maximum daily dose is 160mg.

NCCP Regimen: Regorafenib Monotherapy Published: 01/10/2015 Version number: 5
 Review: 25/03/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributors: Dr Greg Leonard, Prof Page 2 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00244 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:

 Table 1: Dose modification of regorafenib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment Dose
 No dose adjustment is needed. Mild (Child Pugh A) No dose adjustment is needed

 Haemodialysis: No need for dose adjustment is Moderate (Child Pugh B) No need for dose adjustment is
 expected expected
 Severe (Child Pugh C) Not recommended

 Management of adverse events:

 Table 2: Recommended dose modifications of regorafenib and measured for hand-foot skin reaction
 (HFSR)/palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome
 Skin Toxicity Grade Occurrence Recommended dose modification and measures
 Grade 1 Any Maintain dose level and immediately institute supportive
 measures for symptomatic relief.
 st
 1 occurrence Decrease dose by 40mg (one tablet) and immediately institute
 supportive measures. If no improvement occurs despite dose
 reduction, interrupt therapy for a minimum of 7 days, until
 toxicity resolves to Grade 0-1. Dose re-escalation is permitted
 at the discretion of the physician.
 No improvement within 7 Interrupt therapy until toxicity resolves to Grade 0-1. When re-
 Grade 2 days or 2nd occurrence starting treatment, decrease dose by 40mg (one tablet). A dose
 re-escalation is permitted at the discretion of the physician.
 3rd occurrence Interrupt therapy until toxicity resolves to Grade 0-1. When re-
 starting treatment, decrease dose by 40mg (one tablet). A
 dose re-escalation is permitted at the discretion of the
 physician.
 4th occurrence Discontinue treatment permanently.
 1st occurrence Institute supportive measures immediately. Interrupt therapy
 for a minimum of 7 days until toxicity resolves to Grade 0-
 1. When re-starting treatment, decrease dose by 40mg (one
 tablet).
 A dose re-escalation is permitted at the discretion of the
 Grade 3 physician.
 2nd occurrence Institute supportive measures immediately. Interrupt therapy
 for a minimum of 7 days until toxicity resolves to Grade 0-1.
 When re-starting treatment, decrease dose by 40mg (one
 tablet).
 3rd occurrence Discontinue treatment permanently.

NCCP Regimen: Regorafenib Monotherapy Published: 01/10/2015 Version number: 5
 Review: 25/03/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributors: Dr Greg Leonard, Prof Page 3 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00244 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 3: Recommended measures and dose modifications in case of drug-related liver function test
 abnormalities
 Observed elevations of ALT and/or Occurrence Recommended measures and dose modification
 AST
 ≤ 5 x ULN (maximum Grade 2) Any occurrence Continue regorafenib treatment.
 Monitor liver function weekly until transaminases return to
 < 3 x ULN or baseline.
 > 5 x ULN First occurrence Interrupt treatment with regorafenib.
 ≤ 20 x ULN (Grade 3) Monitor transaminases weekly until return to < 3 x ULN or
 baseline.

 Restart: If the potential benefit outweighs the risk of
 hepatotoxicity, re-start treatment, reduce dose by 40mg
 (one tablet), and monitor liver function weekly for at least 4
 weeks.
 Re-occurrence DISCONTINUE treatment with regorafenib permanently.
 > 20 x ULN (Grade 4) Any occurrence DISCONTINUE treatment with regorafenib permanently.
 > 3 x ULN (Grade 2 or higher) with Any occurrence DISCONTINUE treatment with regorafenib permanently.
 concurrent bilirubin > 2 x ULN Monitor liver function weekly until resolution or return to
 baseline.
 Exception: patients with Gilbert’s syndrome who develop
 elevated transaminases should be managed as per the
 above outlined recommendations for the respective
 observed elevation of ALT and/or AST.

NCCP Regimen: Regorafenib Monotherapy Published: 01/10/2015 Version number: 5
 Review: 25/03/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributors: Dr Greg Leonard, Prof Page 4 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00244 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 4: Management of treatment-emergent hypertension.
 *Grade of event Occurrence Management
 Grade 1 Consider increasing the frequency of blood
 pressure monitoring.
 Pre Hypertension
 (systolic BP 120-139mmHg or
 diastolic BP 80-89mmHg)
 Grade 2 Asymptomatic Grade 2 Begin anti-hypertensive therapy and continue
 (recurrent or persistent regorafenib. If diastolic BP is not controlled
 Stage 1 hypertension (=24hrs) increase by (≤100 mmHg) with the addition of new therapy,
 (systolic BP 140-159mmHg or >200mmHg (diastolic) or reduce 1 dose levela.
 diastolic BP 90-99mmHg); medical to > 150/100
 intervention indicated Hold regorafenib until symptoms resolve AND
 Symptomatic Grade 2 diastolic BP ≤100 mmHgb; also treat subject with
 (any increase by >20 mmHg anti-hypertensive medications. If diastolic BP is
 (diastolic) or to >150/100, not controlled (≤100 mmHg) with the addition
 associated with symptoms) of new therapy, reduce 1 dose levela.
 Grade 3 Hold regorafenib until symptoms resolve AND
 Stage 2 hypertension diastolic BP ≤100 mmHgb and increase current
 (systolic BP ≥ 160mmHg or diastolic anti- hypertensive medication(s)/add additional
 BP ≥ 100mmHg); medical anti- hypertensive medications. When
 intervention indicated regorafenib is restarted, reduce by 1 dose levela.
 If diastolic BP is not controlled (≤100 mmHg)
 with the addition of more intensive therapy,
 reduce another dose level c.
 Grade 4 Discontinue therapy.
 Life threatening consequences
 urgent intervention indicated
 a
 BP remains controlled for at least one full cycle, dose re-escalation is permitted at the physician’s discretion.
 b
 Subjects requiring a delay of >4 weeks should go off protocol therapy.
 c
 Subjects requiring >2 dose reductions (<80mg) should go off protocol therapy.
 *CTCAE 4.03

 Table 5: Dose modification/delay for toxicities related to regorafenib treatment (except liver function
 abnormalities, hand-foot skin reaction and hypertension)a
 Grade of Event Dose interruption Dose modification Dose for subsequent cycles
 Grade 0-2 Treat on time No change No change
 Grade 3 Delay until < Grade 2b Reduce dose by 40mg. If toxicity remains < Grade 2, dose
 re-escalation can be considered at
 the discretion of the treating
 physician. If dose is re-escalated
 and toxicity (≥ Grade 3) recurs,
 institute permanent dose
 reduction
 b
 Grade 4 Delay until < Grade 2 Reduce dose by 40mg.
 Permanent
 discontinuation can be
 considered at treating
 consultant’s discretion.
 a
 Excludes alopecia, non-refractory nausea/vomiting, non-refractory hypersensitivity and asymptomatic laboratory abnormalities.
 b If no recovery after a 4 week delay, treatment will be permanently discontinued.

NCCP Regimen: Regorafenib Monotherapy Published: 01/10/2015 Version number: 5
 Review: 25/03/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributors: Dr Greg Leonard, Prof Page 5 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00244 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
 As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

 Regorafenib: Minimal to Low (Refer to local policy).

 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
 available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 See local skin care policy for the prevention and treatment of hand-foot skin adverse reactions

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Grothey A, Van Cutsem E et al. Regorafenib monotherapy for previously treated metastatic
 colorectal cancer (CORRECT): an international, multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3
 trial. The Lancet.2013;381: 303-312
 2. Demetri GD et al. Efficacy and safety of regorafenib for advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours
 after failure of imatinib and sunitinib (GRID): an international, multicentre, randomised, placebo-
 controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2013;381:295-302.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Regorafenib (Stivarga®) Summary of Product Characteristics.Last updated: 15/10/2019. Accessed Jan
 2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/stivarga-epar-
 product-information_en.pdf

NCCP Regimen: Regorafenib Monotherapy Published: 01/10/2015 Version number: 5
 Review: 25/03/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributors: Dr Greg Leonard, Prof Page 6 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00244 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 1/10/15 Initial Draft Dr Greg Leonard/
 Dr Maccon Keane
 2 25/02/2016 Amendment made to table 1and to Dr Maccon Keane
 footnote at table 4 to clarify dose re-
 escalation at physician discretion.
 Amendment made to clarify
 reimbursement category as High-tech
 3 22/02/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen Prof Maccon Keane
 template
 Reviewed. Update of emetogenic
 4 26/02/2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 potential and adverse events.
 Regimen reviewed. Updated eligibility
 and regular testing section. Updated
 5 25/03/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 renal and hepatic dose modifications to
 align with Giraud et al 2023.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Regorafenib Monotherapy Published: 01/10/2015 Version number: 5
 Review: 25/03/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributors: Dr Greg Leonard, Prof Page 7 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00244 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
