NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Anastrozole Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of hormone receptor positive locally advanced or metastatic breast C50 254a N/A
 cancer in post-menopausal women.
 Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive C50 254b N/A
 invasive early breast cancer
 Extended adjuvant treatment of hormone-dependent-invasive breast cancer in C50 254c N/A
 postmenopausal women who have received 2 to 3 years of adjuvant tamoxifen.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Anastrozole is administered orally once daily continuously during treatment.

 Duration of treatment will be determined by the prescribing Consultant and depends on disease
 progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle
 1 Anastrozole 1mg daily PO Continuous daily as indicated until disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity.
 Daily oral supplement of calcium and Vit D are recommended for duration of therapy.
 Tablet should be swallowed whole.
 Can be taken with food or on an empty stomach with a glass of water
 If nausea develops, anastrozole may be taken with or after food or at night. If patient vomits within a few hours of taking the drug, do not repeat the
 dose
 Missed doses should not be replaced, normal dosing should be resumed at the next scheduled daily dose

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  Contraindications to tamoxifen or intolerant of tamoxifen.

 CAUTIONS:
  Severe renal impairment
  Moderate to severe hepatic impairment

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to anastrozole or any of the excipients.
  Pregnancy
  Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist or General Practitioner under
 the direction of plan written by medical oncologist
 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Anastrozole Monotherapy Version number: 5
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00254
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, U&Es, LFTs.Check FSH, LH, oestradiol levels if less than 55 and prior hysterectomy or
 uncertain menopausal status due to young age or other factors

 Regular tests:
  Women with osteoporosis or at risk of osteoporosis, should have their bone mineral
 density formally assessed at the commencement of treatment and at regular intervals
 thereafter
  Lipid profile as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  No recommended dose modifications.
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of Anastrozole in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Renal impairment: No dose adjustment is needed Mild and moderate: no dose adjustment is needed.

 Haemodialysis: no dose adjustment is needed Severe: Not recommended.

 Recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting-
 Available on the NCCP website

Anastrozole: Minimal (Refer to local policy).

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Anastrozole Monotherapy Version number: 5
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00254
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

PREMEDICATIONS:
None usually required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 Bone density: The long-term effects of aromatase inhibitors on bone density in adjuvant therapy
 patients are unknown. Supplementation with calcium and vitamin D and regular weight bearing exercise
 is recommended. A bisphosphonate should be considered if clinically indicated. Caution in patients with
 an already established diagnosis of clinically significant osteoporosis.

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
  Hepatic dysfunction: Aromatase inhibitors are considered safe in mild-to-moderate hepatic
 dysfunction but have not been studied in severe hepatic dysfunction.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Cuzick J, Sestak I et al. Effect of anastrozole and tamoxifen as adjuvant treatment for early-stage
 breast cancer: 10-year analysis of the ATAC trial. Lancet Oncol 2010; 11:1135-1141.
 2. Eisen, A., M. Trudeau, W. Shelley, et al. Aromatase inhibitors in adjuvant therapy for hormone
 receptor positive breast cancer: a systematic review. Cancer Treat Rev 2008;34(2):157-174.
 3. Jonat W, Gnant M, Boccardo F et al. Effectiveness of switching from adjuvant tamoxifen to
 anastrozole in postmenopausal women with hormone-sensitive early-stage breast cancer: a meta-
 analysis. Lancet Oncol. 2006;7:991-996.
 4. Jakesz R, Jonat W. et al. Switching of postmenopausal women with endocrine-responsive early
 breast cancer to anastrozole after 2 years' adjuvant tamoxifen: combined results of ABCSG trial 8 and
 ARNO 95 trial. Lancet 2005; 366:455-462.
 5. Howell A, Cuzick J et al. Results of the ATAC (Arimidex, Tamoxifen, alone or in combination) trial after
 completion of 5 years' adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. Lancet 2005;365(9453): 60-2
 6. Bonneterre J, Buzdar A. et al. Anastrozole is superior to tamoxifen as first-line therapy in hormone
 receptor positive advanced breast carcinoma. Cancer 2001:92;2247-2258.
 7. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 8. Anastrozole 1mg tablets Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed 30/09/2025. Last updated
 25/07/2025. Available at: https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/20912/Licence_PA0749-028-
 001_25072025123349.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 1/11/2014 Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed-clarified wording of Prof Maccon Keane
 2 16/11/2016
 indications
 Updated with new NCCP regimen
 3 26/11/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 template. Clarified treatment duration
 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Anastrozole Monotherapy Version number: 5
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00254
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 4 10/11/2020 Reviewed Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Updated exclusions section.
 Addition of cautions section. Updated
 regular testing section. Update to other
 5 19/12/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 supportive care section. Regimen
 updated in line with NCCP
 standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Anastrozole Monotherapy Version number: 5
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00254
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
