NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Tamoxifen Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Adjuvant treatment of oestrogen receptor positive breast cancer in pre- C50 00253a N/A
 or post-menopausal women.
 Treatment of oestrogen receptor positive advanced breast cancer in C50 00253b N/A
 pre- or post-menopausal women
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:

 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patient’s individual clinical circumstances.

 Tamoxifen is administered orally once daily continuously during treatment. Duration of treatment will be
 determined by the prescribing Consultant and depends on disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Tamoxifen 20 mg daily PO Continuous for specified duration or until disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity
 Tablet should be swallowed whole.
 Can be taken with food or on an empty stomach with a glass of water.
 If nausea develops, tamoxifen may be taken with or after food or at night. If patient vomits within a few hours of taking
 the drug, do not repeat the dose.
 Missed doses should not be replaced, normal dosing should be resumed at the next scheduled daily dose.
 Tamoxifen is commonly available as 10mg and 20mg tablets.

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to tamoxifen or any of the excipients
 • Pregnancy
 • Breastfeeding
 • Patients with a history of significant thromboembolic disease

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 Medical oncologist or General Practitioner under direction of plan written by medical oncologist.

 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Tamoxifen Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00253
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 • ECG as clinically indicated

 Regular tests:
 • Ophthalmology if clinically indicated
 • INR as clinically indicated
 • Repeat LFTs as clinically indicated
 • ECG as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 • Metastatic disease: Disease monitoring/assessment should be in line with the patient’s
 treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by the supervising Consultant.
 • Adjuvant treatment: No routine tests required

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
 • Intolerant or serious complications during tamoxifen therapy. (Note: Post-menopausal patients may be
 switched to aromatase inhibitor therapy for a total of 5 years of adjuvant hormonal therapy).

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 1: Dose modification of Tamoxifen in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No need for dose adjustment is expected Mild/ moderate: no dose adjustment is needed

 Haemodialysis: No need for dose adjustment is expected Severe: not recommended

 Recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting- Available on
 the NCCP website

Tamoxifen: Minimal (Refer to local policy).
For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Tamoxifen Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00253
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: None usually required

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:

• Thromboembolism: Tamoxifen is associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism that is
 comparable to estrogen replacement therapy.
• Endometrial Cancer: An increased incidence in endometrial changes have been reported in association
 with tamoxifen. Annual gynecological examinations are recommended. Pelvic complaints, such as unusual
 vaginal bleeding, require prompt evaluation.
• Myelosuppression: Mild myelosuppression with transient thrombocytopenia may occur rarely. The
 association with tamoxifen is uncertain.
• Ocular Toxicity: Ocular toxicity is rare and may occur after only a few weeks of therapy, although it is
 more common with prolonged treatment. Ophthalmologic examination is recommended if visual
 disturbances occur.
• Hepatotoxicity: While hepatotoxicity is rare and usually presents as elevated hepatic enzymes, more
 serious liver abnormalities have been reported.
• Ovulation Induction: Tamoxifen may induce ovulation in pre- and peri-menopausal women. Barrier forms
 of contraception are recommended.
• Hyperlipidemia: Elevations in cholesterol and triglycerides may occur in patients with pre-existing
 hyperlipidemias.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
1. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group. Effects of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy for
 early breast cancer on recurrence and 15-year survival: an overview of the randomised trials. Lancet.
 2005;365(9472):1687-1717.
2. Davies C, Godwin J, Gray R, et al. Relevance of breast cancer hormone receptors and other factors to the
 efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen: patient-level meta-analysis of randomised trials. Lancet
 2011;378(9793):771-784.
3. Davies C, Pan H, Godwin J, et al. Long-term effects of continuing adjuvant tamoxifen to 10 years versus
 stopping at 5 years after diagnosis of oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer: ATLAS, a randomised
 trial. Lancet 2013;381(9869):805-16.
4. Delozier T, Switsers O, Genot JY et al. Delayed adjuvant tamoxifen: ten-year results of a collaborative
 randomized controlled trial in early breast cancer (TAM-02 trial). Ann Oncol 2000;11:515-9.
5. Eisen A, Trudeau M, Shelley W, et al. Aromatase inhibitors in adjuvant therapy for hormone receptor
 positive breast cancer: a systematic review. Cancer Treat Rev 2008;34(2):157-174.

 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Tamoxifen Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00253
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

6. Muss HB, Case LD, Atkins JN, et al. Tamoxifen versus high-dose oral medroxyprogesterone acetate as
 initial endocrine therapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer: a Piedmont Oncology Association
 study. J Clin Oncol 1994;12(8):1630-1638.
7. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or hepatic
 impairment: an update. Available at: https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-
 2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
8. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting. V6
 2025. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
9. Tamoxifen 20mg (Tamox®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed 03/03/2026. Last updated
 17/02/2026. Available at: https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/19894/Licence_PA0711-022-
 002_17022026161816.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 1/11/2014 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 20/10/2016 Reviewed no changes Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated with new NCCP regimen template and clarified
 3 26/11/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 treatment duration
 4 10/11/2020 Reviewed Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed.Updated exclusions and regular testing
 sections. Added renal and hepatic dose modifications
 5 19/12/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 table (Table 1). Updated in line with NCCP
 standardisation.
 6 01/04/2026 Update to testing section. Prof Maccon Keane

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 01/11/2014
NCCP Regimen: Tamoxifen Monotherapy Version number: 6
 Review: 19/12/2030
Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00253
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
