NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Exemestane Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor C50 00376a CDS
 positive invasive early breast cancer.
 Extended adjuvant treatment of hormone-dependent invasive breast C50 00376b CDS
 cancer in postmenopausal women who have received prior adjuvant
 endocrine therapy.
 Advanced breast cancer after relapse or disease progression, in women C50 00376c CDS
 with natural or artificially induced postmenopausal endocrine status.
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Exemestane is administered orally once daily continuously during treatment.

 Duration of treatment will be determined by the prescribing Consultant and depends on disease
 progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 Exemestane 25mg PO NA Continuous
 Daily oral supplement of calcium and Vit D are recommended for duration of therapy.
 If a dose of exemestane is missed, the patient should not take an additional dose, but take the next prescribed dose as usual.
 The tablets should not be chewed or crushed.
 Exemestane is commonly available as 25mg tablets.

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to exemestane or any of the excipients
 • Pre-menopausal women
 • Pregnancy
 • Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist or General Practitioner under
 direction of plan written by medical oncologist.

 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Exemestane Monotherapy Review: 20/01/2031 Version number: 4

Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00376
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 • Check FSH, LH, oestradiol levels if less than 55 and prior hysterectomy or uncertain
 menopausal status due to young age or other factors.
 • People with osteoporosis or at risk of osteoporosis, should have their bone mineral
 density formally assessed as clinically indicated.
 Regular tests:
 • Lipid profile as clinically indicated
 • Assessment of bone mineral density as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • No recommended dose modifications
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Due to large therapeutic index no dose adjustment is needed Due to large therapeutic index no dose adjustment is
 needed
 Haemodialysis: No need for dose adjustment is expected
 Renal and hepatic dose modifications as per Giraud et al 2023

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting-
 Available on the NCCP website

Exemestane: Minimal (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Exemestane Monotherapy Review: 20/01/2031 Version number: 4

Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00376
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:

Bone density: The long-term effects of aromatase inhibitors on bone density in adjuvant therapy
 patients are unknown. Supplementation with calcium and vitamin D and regular weight bearing exercise
 is recommended. A bisphosphonate should be considered if clinically indicated. Caution in patients with
 an already established diagnosis of clinically significant osteoporosis.

ADVERSE EFFECTS
• Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
• Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
1. van de Velde CJH, Rea D et al. Adjuvant tamoxifen and exemestane in early breast cancer (TEAM): a
 randomised phase 3 trial Lancet 2011; 377, p321–331
2. Coombes RC, Kilburn LS, Snowdon CF, et al. Survival and safety of exemestane versus tamoxifen after
 23 years tamoxifen treatment (Intergroup Exemestane Study): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet
 2007;369(9561):559-570.
3. Eisen A, Trudeau M, Shelley W, et al. Aromatase inhibitors in adjuvant therapy for hormone receptor
 positive breast cancer: a systematic review. Cancer Treat Rev 2008;34(2):157174.
4. Kaufmann M, Bajetta E, Dirix LY, et al. Exemestane is superior to megestrol acetate after tamoxifen
 failure in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer: results of a phase III randomized
 double-blind trial. The Exemestane Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2000;18(7):1399-1411.
5. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
6. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V5 2023. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
7. Exemestane (Aromasin®) 25mg tablets. Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated
 28/08/2025. Accessed December 2025. Available at:
 https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/23117/Licence_PA0822-111-001_09012025155108.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 11/11/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated to new NCCP template
 2 26/11/2018 Clarification on duration of Prof Maccon Keane
 treatment
 3 06/01/2021 Reviewed Prof Maccon Keane
 Regimen reviewed. Updated regular
 4 20/01/2026 Prof Maccon Keane
 testing section. Updated renal and
 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Exemestane Monotherapy Review: 20/01/2031 Version number: 4

Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00376
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 hepatic dose modifications to align
 with Giraud et al 2023. Updated
 other supportive care section.
 Regimen updated in line with NCCP
 standardisation

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Exemestane Monotherapy Review: 20/01/2031 Version number: 4

Tumour Group: Breast IHS/ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00376
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
