NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 PACLitaxel/CISplatin alternating with PACLitaxel/Etoposide
 (TP/TE) Therapy
INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 Treatment of women with high-risk Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia D39 00266a Hospital
 (GTN) who have not responded or have relapsed from treatment with
 EMA/CO.

TREATMENT:
The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

Treatment with PACLitaxel and CISplatin (TP) alternates every 14 days with PACLitaxel and etoposide (TE), and is
administered for 2-4 cycles (1 cycle = 28 days) until normalisation of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)
values or unacceptable toxicity develops.
Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Admin. Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate
 Order
 2 a
 1 1 PACLitaxel 135mg/m IV 500ml 0.9% NaCl over 3 hours
 2 b
 2 1 CISplatin 60mg/m IV 1000ml 0.9% NaCl over 60 mins
 2
 1 15 PACLitaxel 135mg/m IV 500ml 0.9% NaCl over 3 hours
 2 c
 2 15 Etoposide 150mg/m IV 1000ml 0.9% NaCl over 60 mins
 PACLitaxel must be supplied in non-PVC containers and administered using non-PVC giving sets and through an in-line 0.22 μm filter with a
 microporous membrane.
 a
 PACLitaxel should be diluted to a concentration of 0.3-1.2mg/ml.
 b
 Pre and post hydration therapy required for CISplatin
 See local hospital policy recommendations.
 Suggested prehydration for CISplatin therapy:
 1. Administer 10mmol magnesium sulphate (MgSO4) (+/-KCl 10-20mmol/L if indicated) in 1000 mL sodium chloride 0.9% over 60 minutes.
 Administer CISplatin as described above
 Post hydration: Administer 1000 ml 0.9% NaCl over 60mins
 Mannitol 10% may be used to as per local policy to induce diuresis, although there is no conclusive evidence that this is required. The routine use of
 furosemide to increase urine flow is not recommended unless there is evidence of fluid overload (3,4).
 c
 Hypotension following rapid IV administration has been reported.
 Longer infusion times may be required based on the patient’s tolerance

ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  CrCl > 50ml/min

 NCCP Regimen: TP/TE Therapy Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 4
 Review: 22/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 6
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00266
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to PACLitaxel, CISplatin, etoposide or any of the excipients
  CISplatin
 o Pre-existing neuropathies ≥ grade 2
 o Creatinine clearance < 60 mL/min
 o Significant hearing impairment/tinnitus
  Severe hepatic impairment (etoposide)

PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  ECG
  Serum hCG using a validated test method
  Audiology and creatinine clearance if clinically indicated

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Serum hCG (using a validated test method) should be done on day one of each cycle or more
 frequently if required
 o After remission is achieved, serum hCG (using a validated test method) should be measured
 fortnightly for six months after consolidation therapy then monthly for a further six months
 and then every two months for two years

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
  In general treatment may proceed if neutrophils ≥ 1 x109/L and platelets > 75 x109/L.
  The use of G-CSF support is recommended.

 NCCP Regimen: TP/TE Therapy Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 4
 Review: 22/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 6
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00266
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:

Table 1: Dose modifications in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Etoposide CrCl (ml/min) Dose Bilirubin AST Dose
 (micromol/L)
 >50 100% 26-51 or 60-180 50%
 15-50 75% >51 or >180 Clinical decision
 <15 50%
 Subsequent doses should be based on
 clinical responses
 CISplatin CrCl (ml/min) Dose No dose reduction necessary
 2
 50-59 50mg/m
 2
 40-49 40mg/m
 <40 CARBOplatin AUC 4
 PACLitaxel No dose reductions necessary Dose reduction may be required. Clinical decision

SUPPORTIVE CARE:

EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
PACLitaxel: Low (Refer to local policy).
CISplatin: High (Refer to local policy).
Etoposide: Low (Refer to local policy).

PREMEDICATIONS:

  All patients must be premedicated with corticosteroids, antihistamines, and H2 antagonists prior to
 first dose of PACLitaxel treatment.
  The H2 antagonist, famotidine, can potentially be omitted from the pre-medication requirements for
 PACLitaxel but the risk of hypersensitivity with this approach is unknown.
 o Caution is advised particularly for patients receiving PACLitaxel every 3 weeks. It is
 recommended that if famotidine is omitted that patients are monitored closely for any signs
 of hypersensitivity. Any hypersensitivity should be managed as per local policy.
 o Where a patient experiences hypersensitivity, consider the use of alternative H2 antagonists.
 (Refer to local policy).

 NCCP Regimen: TP/TE Therapy Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 4
 Review: 22/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 6
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00266
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

Table 2: Suggested premedications prior to treatment with PACLitaxel
 Drug Dose Administration prior to PACLitaxel
 a,b
 Dexamethasone 20mg oral or IV For oral administration: approximately 6 and 12 hours or
 for IV administration: 30 minutes
 Chlorphenamine 10mg IV 30 minutes
 c
 Famotidine 20mg IV 30 minutes
 a
 Dose of dexamethasone may be reduced or omitted in the absence of hypersensitivity reaction according to
 consultant guidance.
 b
 If aprepitant is added to the anti-emetic regimen, consideration should be given to reducing the dose of
 dexamethasone to 12mg on the day of treatment.
 c
 Dose of famotidine may be omitted in the absence of hypersensitivity reaction according to consultant
 guidance.

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Hydration prior and post CISplatin administration (Reference local policy or see recommendations above).
G-CSF may be used to mitigate the risk of haematological toxicities.
Myalgias and arthralgias may occur with PACLitaxel. Analgesic cover should be considered.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full details.
  Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated appropriately.
 G-CSF will likely be needed to maintain white blood cell count.
  Hypersensitivity: There is a high risk of hypersensitivity reactions with PACLitaxel, CISplatin and
 etoposide.
 Severe hypersensitivity reactions characterised by dyspnoea and hypotension requiring treatment,
 angioedema and generalised urticaria have occurred in <1% of patients receiving PACLitaxel after
 adequate premedication. In the case of severe hypersensitivity reactions, PACLitaxel infusion should be
 discontinued immediately, symptomatic therapy should be initiated.
 Monitor infusion of etoposide for the first 15 minutes for signs of hypotension.

 PACLitaxel
  Peripheral neuropathy: Occurs frequently but the development of severe symptoms is rare. Dose
 reduction or discontinuation may be necessary.
  Arthralgia/myalgia: May be severe in some patients; however, there is no consistent correlation between
 cumulative dose and infusion duration of PACLitaxel and frequency or severity of the arthralgia/myalgia.
 Symptoms are usually transient, occurring within 2 or 3 days after PACLitaxel administration, and
 resolving within days.
  Hepatic Dysfunction: Patients with hepatic impairment may be at increased risk of toxicity, particularly
 grade 3-4 myelosuppression.
  Extravasation: PACLitaxel causes pain and tissue necrosis if extravasated (Refer to local policy).

 NCCP Regimen: TP/TE Therapy Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 4
 Review: 22/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 6
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00266
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

  Cardiac conduction abnormalities: If patients develop significant conduction abnormalities during
 paclitaxel administration, appropriate therapy should be administered and continuous cardiac monitoring
 should be performed during subsequent therapy with PACLitaxel. Hypotension, hypertension, and
 bradycardia have been observed during PACLitaxel administration; patients are usually asymptomatic and
 generally do not require treatment. Frequent vital sign monitoring, particularly during the first hour of
 PACLitaxel infusion, is recommended.

 CISplatin
  Renal Toxicity: Nephrotoxicity is common with CISplatin. Encourage oral hydration. If oral hydration is not
 possible (e.g. excessive nausea), IV hydration is indicated. Avoid nephrotoxic drugs such as
 aminoglycoside antibiotics where possible. Where treatment with nephrotoxic drugs must be used,
 monitor renal function.
  Ototoxicity and sensory neural damage should be assessed by history prior to each cycle of CISplatin.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Risk of drug interactions causing increased concentrations of PACLitaxel with CYP3A inhibitors. Patients
 should also be counselled with regard to consumption of grapefruit juice.
  Risk of drug interactions causing decreased concentrations of PACLitaxel with CYP3A inducers.
  CISplatin may potentiate the nephrotoxic and ototoxic effects of loop diuretics and aminoglycosides so
 concurrent use should be avoided.
  Concomitant CISplatin therapy is associated with reduced total body clearance of etoposide.
  CYP3A4 inducers may increase the clearance of etoposide.
  CYP3A4 and p-gp inhibitors may decrease the clearance of etoposide
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Wang J, Short D et al Salvage Chemotherapy of relapsed or high-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia
 (GTN) with paclitaxel/cisplatin alternating with paclitaxel/etoposide (TP/TE). Annals Oncol. 2008; 19:
 1578-1583.
 2. Osborne R, Covens A et al Successful Salvage of Relapsed High-Risk Gestational trophoblastic Neoplasia
 Patients using a Novel Paclitaxel-Containing Doublet. J. Reprod. Med. 2004;49(8):655-61
 3. Nephrotoxicity Associated with CISplatin EviQ ID: 184 v.3
 https://www.eviq.org.au/clinical-resources/side-effect-and-toxicity-management/prophylaxis-and-
 prevention/184-nephrotoxicity-associated-with-CISplatin
 4. Portilla D et al. CISplatin nephrotoxicity. UptoDate Accessed Oct 2017
 https://www.uptodate.com/contents/CISplatin-
 nephrotoxicity?source=search_result&search=CISplatin%20hydration&selectedTitle=1~150
 5. NCCP National Clinical Guideline (Draft) - Diagnosis, staging and treatment of patients with Gestational
 Trophoblastic Disease. July 2021.
 6. Balachandran, K Seckl M et al. When to stop human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) surveillance after
 treatment with chemotherapy for gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN): A national analysis on over
 4,000 patients. Gynecologic Oncology 155 (2019) 8–12 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ygyno.2019.07.024
 7. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
 8. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.

 NCCP Regimen: TP/TE Therapy Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 4
 Review: 22/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 6
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00266
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

9. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting. V4
 2022. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
10.PACLitaxel 6 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed
 Nov 2022 . Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2059-050-
 001_21092022103217.pdf
11.CISplatin 1mg/ml Concentrate for Solution for Infusion. Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed
 Nov 2022 . Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2315-081-
 001_04082021111433.pdf
12.Etoposide 20 mg/ml Concentrate for Solution for Infusion. Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed
 Nov 2022 . Available at : https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2315-201-
 001_13032020114929.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 01/02/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 22/02/2018 Clarified dosing in renal and hepatic Prof Maccon Keane
 impairment.
 Applied new NCCP regimen template
 3 22/10/2021 Reviewed. Updated CISplatin hydration Prof Maccon Keane
 and Exclusions. Updated baseline tests.
 Updated hCG testing (baseline and
 regular tests). Updated emetogenic
 potential. Standardised premedications.
 Updated adverse effects and drug
 interactions.
 4 14/04/2023 Updated suggested PACLItaxel pre Prof Maccon Keane
 medications section and table.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: TP/TE Therapy Published: 01/02/2016 Version number: 4
 Review: 22/10/2026
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 6 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00266
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
