NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Bortezomib, Melphalan and Prednisolone Therapy

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 Treatment of adult patients with previously untreated multiple C90 00275a Bortezomib; Hospital
 myeloma who are NOT eligible for high-dose chemotherapy Melphalan: CDS
 with haematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Bortezomib is administered subcutaneously in combination with oral melphalan and oral prednisolone as
 shown in the treatment table below. A 6-week period is considered a treatment cycle.

 Treatment is administered for 9 bortezomib treatment cycles or until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity develops.

  In Cycles 1-4, bortezomib is administered twice weekly on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25, 29 and 32.
  In Cycles 5-9, bortezomib is administered once weekly on days 1, 8, 22 and 29.
  Melphalan and prednisone should both be given orally on days 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the first week of
 each cycle.
  As an alternative, bortezomib may be given once weekly on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of a 5 week
 cycle in select patients at the treating clinican’s discretion.

 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle
 1, 4, 8, 11, 22,
 25, 29, 32 Bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 ab,
 SC (abdomen or thigh) 1-4 (every 6 weeks)
 1, 8, 22 and 29
 Bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 ab,
 SC (abdomen or thigh) 5-9 (every 6 weeks)
 1-4
 Melphalan 9 mg/m2 PO 1-9 (every 6 weeks)
 1-4
 Prednisolone 60 mg/m2 PO 1-9 (every 6 weeks)
 a
 Note: In individual cases where approved by Consultant bortezomib may be administered as IV bolus over 3-5 seconds
 through a peripheral or central intravenous catheter followed by a flush with 0.9% NaCl. Note the concentration of
 bortezomib solution should be 1mg/ml when administered via the IV route
 b
 The solution should be injected subcutaneously, at a 45-900 angle. Injection sites should be rotated for successive
 injections. If local injection site reactions occur, either a less concentrated solution may be administered sc or a switch
 to intravenous injection is recommended.
 At least 72 hours should elapse between consecutive doses of bortezomib.
 Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor and is neurotoxic. Refer to NCCP Guidance on the Safe Use of Neurotoxic drugs
 (including Vinca Alkaloids) in the treatment of cancer. Here

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib, Melphalan and Published: 08/08/2016
 Version number:3
Prednisolone Review: 08/03/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma
 IHS Contributors: Dr John Quinn Page 1 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00275
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 ELIGIBILTY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to bortezomib, boron, melphalan or any of the excipients
  Acute diffuse infiltrative pulmonary and pericardial disease

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Haematologist working in the area of haematological
 malignancies.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal, liver and bone profile
  Uric acid
  Clotting screen
  Blood pressure, blood glucose (patients on oral hypoglycaemics).
  Assessment of peripheral neuropathy status.
  Virology screen -Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBcoreAb), C and HIV *See Adverse Effects/Regimen
 Specific Complications re Hepatitis B Reactivation

 Regular tests:
  FBC; monitor platelet count at a minimum of day 1 and day 11 each cycle
  Renal, liver and bone profile prior to each cycle.
  Blood pressure, *blood glucose if being treated with oral hypoglycaemics. (* See Drug
 Interactions)

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant

 Haematological:
 Prior to initiating a new cycle of therapy
  Platelets ≥70 x 109/L and ANC ≥1 x 109/L
  Non-haematological toxicities should have resolved to Grade 1 or baseline

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib, Melphalan and Published: 08/08/2016
 Version number:3
Prednisolone Review: 08/03/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma
 IHS Contributors: Dr John Quinn Page 2 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00275
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Table 1: Dose reduction steps for bortezomib
 Dose Level Dose
 Starting dose 1.3mg/m2
 Dose level 1 1.0mg/m2
 Dose level 2 0.7mg/m2
 Dose level 3 Discontinue

 Table 2: Dose modifications for haematological toxicity
 Toxicity Dose Modification
 If prolonged Grade 4 Neutropenia (ANC < 0.5 x 109/L) or Consider reduction of the melphalan dose by 25% in
 Thrombocytopenia (Platelets < 25 x 109/L) or the next cycle.
 thrombocytopenia with bleeding is observed in the
 previous cycle
 If platelet ≤ 30x109/L or ANC ≤ 0.75 x 109/L on a Withhold bortezomib
 bortezomib dosing day (other than day 1)
 If several bortezomib doses in a cycle are withheld Reduce bortezomib from 1.3mg/m2 to 1 mg/m2 or
 (≥ 2 doses) from 1mg/m2 to 0.7mg/m2

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Recommended dose modification for renal or hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal impairment Hepatic impairment
 Bortezomib It is unknown if the Grade of Bilirubin (AST) Modification of starting
 pharmacokinetics of Hepatic Level** Levels** dose
 bortezomib are influenced in Impairment*
 patients with severe renal Mild ≤1 x ULN > ULN None
 impairment not undergoing >1-1.5xULN Any None
 dialysis (CrCL < 20ml/min).
 Since dialysis may reduce Moderate >1.5-3xULN Any Reduce dose to 0.7mg/m2
 bortezomib concentrations, Severe >3xULN Any in the first treatment
 it should be administered cycle.
 after the dialysis procedure Consider dose escalation
 to 1mg/m2 or further
 dose reduction to
 0.5mg/m2 in subsequent
 cycles based on patient
 tolerability.
 Melphalan Creatinine Dose No dose changes recommended.
 Clearance(ml/min) If excessive toxicity, consider dose reduction on subsequent cycles
 >50 100%
 10-50 75%
 <10 50%
 *Based on NCI Organ Dysfunction Working Group classification for categorising hepatic impairment (mild, moderate,
 severe)
 **ULN = Upper Limit Normal

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib, Melphalan and Published: 08/08/2016
 Version number:3
Prednisolone Review: 08/03/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma
 IHS Contributors: Dr John Quinn Page 3 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00275
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy:
 Table 4: Dose modifications for bortezomib related neuropathy
 Severity of neuropathy Dose Modification
 Grade 1 None
 Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 Reduce dose to 1mg/m2 or
 Change treatment schedule to 1.3mg/m2 once every week
 Withhold treatment until symptoms of toxicity have
 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 resolved. When toxicity resolves re-initiate treatment and
 reduce dose to 0.7mg/m2 once every week
 Grade 4 and/or severe autonomic neuropathy Discontinue treatment
 Grade 1: Asymptomatic; clinical or diagnostic observations only
 Grade 2: Moderate symptoms; limiting instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL)
 Grade 3: Severe symptoms; limiting self-care ADL
 Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated
 Grading based on NCI Common Toxicity Criteria CTCAE v 4

 Dose reductions for other toxicities:
 Table 5: Dose modification schedule of bortezomib based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions* Recommended dose modification
 Grade ≥3 Non-haematological toxicity Withhold bortezomib until symptoms resolved to Grade 1 or
 baseline then reinitiate with one dose level reduction from
 1.3mg/m2 to 1 mg/m2 or from 1mg/m2 to 0.7mg/m2
 New or worsening pulmonary Withhold treatment. Prompt diagnostic evaluation required and
 symptoms (e.g. cough, dyspnoea) benefit/risk ratio should be considered prior to continuing
 bortezomib therapy.
 Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Discontinue bortezomib
 Syndrome (PRES)
 *Grading based on NCI Common Toxicity Criteria CTCAE v 4.0

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
Bortezomib- Low (Refer to local policy).
Melphalan – Minimal (Refer to local policy)

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required. Ensure patient remains well hydrated during treatment

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Bisphosphonates should be considered in all patients with myeloma related bone disease.
  Consider the use of a H2 antagonist or proton pump inhibitor (Refer to local policy).
  Tumour Lysis Syndrome prophylaxis (Refer to local policy).
  Consider PJP prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Antiviral prophylaxis (Refer to local policy).

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib, Melphalan and Published: 08/08/2016
 Version number:3
Prednisolone Review: 08/03/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma
 IHS Contributors: Dr John Quinn Page 4 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00275
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
  Tumour Lysis Syndrome: Patients at risk of tumour lysis syndrome are those with high tumour burden
 prior to treatment. These patients should be monitored closely and appropriate precautions taken.
  Hepatitis B Reactivation: Patients should be tested for both HBsAg and HBcoreAb as per local policy. If
 either test is positive, such patients should be treated with anti-viral therapy. (Refer to local infectious
 disease policy). These patients should be considered for assessment by hepatology.

Bortezomib:
  Haematological toxicity: Gastrointestinal and intracerebral haemorrhage have been reported in
 association with bortezomib treatment. Therefore platelet counts should be monitored prior to each
 dose of bortezomib and bortezomib should be withheld when the platelet count is < 25x 109cells/L.
 Potential benefit of treatment should be carefully weighed against the risks, particularly in case of
 moderate to severe thrombocytopenia and risk factors for bleeding. Complete blood counts with
 differential and including platelet counts should be frequently monitored throughout treatment with
 bortezomib. Platelet transfusion should be considered when clinically appropriate.
  Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML): Patients should be monitored at regular intervals
 for any new or worsening neurological symptoms or signs that may be suggestive of PML as part of the
 differential diagnosis of CNS problems. If a diagnosis of PM is suspected patients should be referred to
 a specialist in PML and appropriate diagnostic measures for PML should be initiated. Discontinue
 bortezomib if PML is diagnosed.
  Peripheral Neuropathy: Patients with pre-existing severe neuropathy may be treated with
 bortezomib only after careful risk/benefit assessment.
  Seizures: Seizures have been uncommonly reported in patients without previous history of seizures or
 epilepsy. Special care is required when treating patients with any risk factors for seizures
  Hypotension: Treatment is commonly associated with orthostatic/postural hypotension. A minority of
 patients with orthostatic hypotension experienced syncopal events. Caution is advised when treating
 patients with a history of syncope receiving medicinal products known to be associated with
 hypotension; or who are dehydrated due to recurrent diarrhoea or vomiting.
  Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES): In patients developing PRES, treatment with
 bortezomib should be discontinued.
  Heart Failure: Acute development or exacerbation of congestive heart failure, and/or new onset of
 decreased left ventricular ejection fraction has been reported during bortezomib treatment. Patients
 with risk factors for or existing heart disease should be closely monitored.
  Hepatic Impairment: Bortezomib is metabolised by liver enzymes. Bortezomib exposure is increased
 in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment; these patients should be treated with
 bortezomib at reduced doses and closely monitored for toxicities.

 Melphalan
  Myelosuppression: Melphalan is a potent myelosuppressive agent.
  Renal Impairment: Clearance of melphalan may be reduced in patients with renal impairment who may
 also have uraemic bone marrow suppression. Dose reduction may therefore be necessary and these
 patients should be closely observed.
  Mutagenecity: Chromosome aberrations have been observed in patients treated with melphalan.
  Carcinogenecity: There have been reports of acute leukaemia occurring after melphalan treatment for
 multiple myeloma.
NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib, Melphalan and Published: 08/08/2016
 Version number:3
Prednisolone Review: 08/03/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma
 IHS Contributors: Dr John Quinn Page 5 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00275
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Additive hypotensive effect with antihypertensives and bortezomib. Blood pressure should be
 monitored and ensure patient is well hydrated prior to bortezomib dose. Adjustment of
 antihypertensives may be required.
  During clinical trials, hypoglycemia was uncommonly reported and hyperglycemia commonly reported
 in diabetic patients receiving oral hypoglycemics. Patients on oral antidiabetic agents receiving
 bortezomib treatment may require close monitoring of their blood glucose levels and adjustment of the
 dose of their antidiabetics
  Patients should be closely monitored when given bortezomib in combination with potent CYP3A4-
 inhibitors. Caution should be exercised when bortezomib is combined with CYP3A4- or CYP2C19
 substrates.
  Impaired renal function has been described in bone marrow patients who were pre-conditioned with
 high dose IV Melphalan and who subsequently received cyclosporine to prevent graft-versus-host
 disease.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Moreau P, Coiteux V, Hulin C, et al. Prospective Comparison of subcutaneous versus intravenous
 administration of bortezomib in patients with multiple myeloma. Haematologica 2008;93:1908-11.
 2. Chanan-Kahn, Analysis of Herpes zoster events among bortezomib-treated patients. J Clin Oncol.
 2008;26:4784- 90
 3. San Miguel JF et al. Bortezomib plus Melphalan and Prednisone for initial treatment of Multiple
 Myeloma. NEJM. 2008;359(9):906-917
 4. Bringhen S, Larocca A, Rossi D, Cavalli M, Genuardi M, Ria R, Gentili S, Patriarca F, Nozzoli C, Levi A,
 Guglielmelli T, Benevolo G, Callea V, Rizzo V, Cangialosi C, Musto P, De Rosa L, Liberati AM, Grasso M,
 Falcone AP, Evangelista A, Cavo M, Gaidano G, Boccadoro M, Palumbo A. Efficacy and safety of once-
 weekly bortezomib in multiple myeloma patients. Blood. 2010 Dec 2;116(23):4745-53. doi:
 10.1182/blood-2010-07-294983
 5. Mateos MV, Hernández JM, et al. Bortezomib plus melphalan and prednisone in elderly untreated
 patients with multiple myeloma: results of a multicenter phase 1/2 study. Blood. 2006;108(7):2165-
 72.
 6. Mateos MV, Hernández JM, et al. Bortezomib plus melphalan and prednisone in elderly untreated
 patients with multiple myeloma: updated time-to-events results and prognostic factors for time to
 progression. Haematologica 2008;93(4):560-5.
 7. Mateos MV, Richardson PG et al. Bortezomib plus melphalan and prednisone compared with
 melphalan and prednisone in previously untreated multiple myeloma: updated follow-up and impact
 of subsequent therapy in the phase III VISTA trial. J Clin Oncol. 2010;28(13):2259-66.
 8. Moreau P, Pylypenko H, Grosicki S, et al. Subcutaneous versus intravenous administration of
 bortezomib in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma: a randomized, phase 3, non-inferiority study.
 Lancet Oncol. 2011;12(5):431- 40.
 9. Richardson PG, Briemberg H et al. Frequency, Characteristics, and Reversibility of Peripheral
 Neuropathy During Treatment of Advanced Multiple Myeloma With Bortezomib. J Clin Oncol. 2006:
 24(19);3113-3120.
 10. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network. Available at http://londoncancer.org/media/65594/hepatic-impairment-dosage-
 adjustment-for-cytotoxics.pdf
NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib, Melphalan and Published: 08/08/2016
 Version number:3
Prednisolone Review: 08/03/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma
 IHS Contributors: Dr John Quinn Page 6 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00275
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 11. VELCADE® Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed October 2020 Available at
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/velcade-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 12. ALKERAN® Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed October 2020. Available at
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA1691-004-001_14112019130102.pdf
 13. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V2 2019. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 08/08/2016 Dr John Quinn
 2 12/10/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen Dr John Quinn
 template and Hepatitis B
 recommendations
 3 08/03/2021 Regimen review Dr John Quinn
 Addition of table for dose reduction
 steps for bortezomib
 Updated adverse events/regimen
 specific complications with regard to
 management of hepatitis B reactivation

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib, Melphalan and Published: 08/08/2016
 Version number:3
Prednisolone Review: 08/03/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma
 IHS Contributors: Dr John Quinn Page 7 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00275
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
