NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Gemcitabine (400mg/m2) and RT Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Resectable adenocarcinoma of the head of pancreas C25 00522a N/A
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patient’s individual clinical circumstances.

 Gemcitabine is administered once weekly on Day 5 of each 7-day cycle for 7 consecutive weeks according to
 the treatment table below.
 Cycle 2 and 3 consist of gemcitabine administered on day 5 concurrent with radiation administered on days
 1 through 5 of a 7-day cycle according to the summary table below.

 Cycle frequency and duration:
 Each cycle is 7 days.
 Treatment should continue for a total of 7 cycles unless the patient experiences disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Treatment table for Gemcitabine:

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 5 Gemcitabinei 400mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL NaCl 0.9% over 30 minutes Every 7 days for 7 cycles
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 Published: 07/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Gemcitabine (400mg/m2) and RT Therapy Version number: 5
 Date Last Reviewed: 30/06/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00522 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Summary table for administration of gemcitabine and radiotherapy:
 Week Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
 Day 1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5
 1
 Gemcitabine

 2 Radiotherapy Radiotherapy Radiotherapy Radiotherapy Gemcitabine & Radiotherapy

 3 Radiotherapy Radiotherapy Radiotherapy Radiotherapy Gemcitabine & Radiotherapy

 4 Gemcitabine

 5 Gemcitabine

 6 Gemcitabine

 7 Gemcitabine

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indication as above
 • ECOG 0-2

 CAUTIONS:
 • History of cardiovascular events
 • Pre-existing renal impairment

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to gemcitabine or any of the excipients
 • Pregnancy
 • Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.

 Published: 07/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Gemcitabine (400mg/m2) and RT Therapy Version number: 5
 Date Last Reviewed: 30/06/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00522 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modifications for gemcitabine
 Platelet count
 ANC (x 109/L) Other toxicity Recommended dose of Gemcitabine
 (x 109/L)
 ≥1 and ≥ 100 100%
 0.5- 1 or 50-100 75%
 Omit. Do not restart treatment until
 < 0.5 or < 50
 ANC ≥ 0.5 and platelets ≥ 50
 ANC < 0.5 for ≥ 5 days or or < 25 or Cycle delay of > 1 Reduce dose to 75% of the original cycle
 ANC < 0.1 for ≥ 3 days or week due to any initiation dose for all subsequent cycles.
 Any incidence of febrile toxicity
 neutropenia

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of Gemcitabine in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Gemcitabine CrCl (mL/minute) Dose Total bilirubin
 (micromol/L)
 ≥ 30 No dose adjustment is < 27 No dose adjustment is needed
 needed
 < 30 No need for dose ≥ 27 Either start at 80% of the original
 adjustment is expected dose and increase the dose if
 Haemodialysis No need for dose tolerated, or start with full dose with
 adjustment is expected. active monitoring.
 Start haemodialysis 6-12
 hours after administration.
 Renal and hepatic impairment dose modification recommendations obtained from Giraud et al 2023.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of gemcitabine for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade ≥ 2 Pneumonitis Discontinue gemcitabine
 Grade ≥ 3 Non-haematological toxicity Therapy with gemcitabine should be withheld (until toxicity has
 (except nausea/vomiting) resolved to grade ≤ 1) and may be resumed with 50% dose
 reduction or treatment discontinued at discretion of prescribing
 consultant.
 Grade > 4 Non-haematological toxicity Discontinue treatment
 Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) Discontinue treatment
 e.g. Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic
 epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction
 with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms
 (DRESS) and acute generalised
 exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)

 Published: 07/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Gemcitabine (400mg/m2) and RT Therapy Version number: 5
 Date Last Reviewed: 30/06/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00522 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting Available
 on the NCCP website

Gemcitabine: Low (Refer to local policy).

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS:
None usually required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
No specific recommendations

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for full details on adverse
 effects.
 • Please note the NCCP National SACT Regimens do not provide information regarding black
 triangle (▼) status. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for
 this information.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for full details.
 • Pulmonary Toxicity: Acute shortness of breath may occur. Discontinue treatment if drug-
 induced pneumonitis is suspected.
 • Cardiovascular: Due to the risk of cardiac and/or vascular disorders with gemcitabine, particular
 caution must be exercised with patients presenting a history of cardiovascular events.
 • Renal toxicity: Irreversible renal failure associated with haemolytic uraemic syndrome may occur
 rarely with gemcitabine. Use caution with pre-existing renal impairment.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current drug interaction databases and SmPC should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Douglas B. Evans, Gauri R. Varadhachary Preoperative Gemcitabine-Based Chemoradiation for
 Patients With Resectable Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreatic Head. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:3496-3502
 2. Oettle H, Neuhaus P et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine and long-term outcomes among
 patients with resected pancreatic cancer: the CONKO-001 randomized trial. JAMA. 2013;310(14)
 :1473-81.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/

 Published: 07/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Gemcitabine (400mg/m2) and RT Therapy Version number: 5
 Date Last Reviewed: 30/06/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00522 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Gemcitabine (Accord) 100mg/mL Concentrate for Solution for Infusion Summary of Product
 Characteristics. Last updated 04/12/2024. Accessed 12/01/2026. Available at:
 https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/27518/Licence_PA2315-092-004_04122024122304.pdf

 From 30/06/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to suggest
 any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 07/11/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 Clarification of dosing in hepatic
 2 30/01/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 impairment
 3 10/02/2021 Amended exclusions Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated adverse events table (Table
 4 07/11/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 3) to include information on SCARs.
 Standard Wording and formatting
 updates.Addition of history of
 cardiovascular events and pre-
 existing renal impairment to
 cautions section.
 Updated renal and hepatic
 5 30/06/2026 Prof Maccon Keane
 impairment section to Giraud et al
 2023.Removal of neutropenia from
 Regimen Specific Complications.
 Addition of unlicensed posology
 footnote.Updated regimen review
 schedule to an ‘as required’ basis.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i
 This is an unlicensed posology for the use of gemcitabine in Ireland. Patients should be informed of this and
 consented to treatment in line with the hospital’s policy on the use of unlicensed medication and unlicensed
 or “off label” indications. Prescribers should be fully aware of their responsibility in communicating any
 relevant information to the patient and also ensuring that the unlicensed or “off label” indication has been
 acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs and Therapeutics Committee, or equivalent, in line with hospital policy.

 Published: 07/11/2018
NCCP Regimen: Gemcitabine (400mg/m2) and RT Therapy Version number: 5
 Date Last Reviewed: 30/06/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00522 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
