NCCP National SACT Regimen

 SORAfenib Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) C22 00294a N/A
 Treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) who have C64 00294b N/A
 failed prior interferon-alpha or interleukin-2 based therapy or are
 considered unsuitable for such therapy
 Treatment of patients with progressive, locally advanced or metastatic C73 00294c N/A
 differentiated (papillary/follicular/Hürthle cell) thyroid carcinoma,
 refractory to radioactive iodine
 * This is for post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 SORAfenib is taken orally twice daily continuously until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
 develops.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 SORAfenib 400mg Twice Daily PO Continuous therapy
 It is recommended that SORAfenib should be administered without food or with a low or moderate fat meal. If the patient intends to have
 a high-fat meal, SORAfenib tablets should be taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after the meal.
 The tablets should be swallowed with a glass of water.
 SORAfenib is commonly available as a 200mg tablet.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG status 0-2
  Adequate haematological, renal and liver status

 CAUTIONS:
  Patients who have, or may develop prolongation of QTc, such as:
 o patients with a congenital long QT syndrome,
 o Patients receiving concomitant medicinal products known to lead to QT
 prolongation,
 o and those with electrolyte disturbances such as hypokalaemia, hypocalcaemia, or
 hypomagnesaemia
  Patients with Child Pugh Class B and C

 Published: 03/05/2016
NCCP Regimen: SORAfenib Therapy Version number: 4
 Review: 27/08/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal/Genitourinary/
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
Head and Neck Page 1 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00294
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please checkwww.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to SORAfenib or any of the excipients
  Uncontrolled hypertension
  Pregnancy
  Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Blood pressure
  Thyroid function tests
  Assessment of cardiac function

 Regular tests:
  Consider FBC, renal and liver profile at 14 days for first cycle.
  FBC, renal and liver profile, TSH and thyroid function every 28 days
  Blood pressure weekly for first month and then every 28 days
  INR tests if patient is on warfarin as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Management of suspected adverse drug reactions may require temporary interruption or
 dose reduction of SORAfenib therapy
  HCC and RCC:
 o When a dose reduction is necessary, the dose of SORAfenib should be reduced to
 400mg once daily
  Differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC):
 o When a dose reduction is necessary, SORAfenib should be reduced to 600mg daily
 taken in divided doses (two tablets of 200mg and one tablet of 200mg twelve hours
 apart, i.e. 400mg AM, 200mg PM)
 o If additional dose reduction is necessary, SORAfenib may be reduced to 400mg
 SORAfenib daily in divided doses (two tablets of 200mg twelve hours apart, i.e.
 200mg AM, 200mg PM), and if necessary further reduce to one tablet of 200mg
 once daily
 o After improvement of non-haematological adverse reactions, the dose of
 SORAfenib may be increased

 Published: 03/05/2016
NCCP Regimen: SORAfenib Therapy Version number: 4
 Review: 27/08/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal/Genitourinary/
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
Head and Neck Page 2 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00294
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please checkwww.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 2: Dose modification of SORAfenib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose Class Dose
 >40 No dose adjustment is needed. Child-Pugh A
 20-39 200mg twice daily, dose Child-Pugh B No dose adjustment is needed
 escalate based on tolerability.
 <20 or haemodialysis 200mg once daily, dose Child-Pugh C Starting dose 200mg once daily,
 escalate based on tolerability. dose escalate based on
 tolerability.
 Renal and hepatic dose modifications from Giraud et al 2023

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

SORAfenib: Minimal to low (Refer to local policy)

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Medication may be required for the management of diarrhoea (Refer to local policy)
  See local skin care policy for treatment and prevention of PPE

ADVERSE EFFECTS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

 Published: 03/05/2016
NCCP Regimen: SORAfenib Therapy Version number: 4
 Review: 27/08/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal/Genitourinary/
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
Head and Neck Page 3 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00294
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please checkwww.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

REFERENCES:
 1. Llovet, JM, Ricci S, Mazzaferro V, et al. Sorafenib in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. N Engl J Med
 2008;359(4):378-390.
 2. Miller AA, Murry DJ, Owzar K. et al. Phase I and pharmacokinetic study of sorafenib in patients with
 hepatic or renal dysfunction: CALGB 60301. J Clin Oncol 2009;27(11):1800-1805.
 3. Cheng, AL, Kang YK, Chen Z. et al. Efficacy and safety of sorafenib in patients in the AsiaPacific region
 with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma: a phase III randomised, doubleblind, placebo controlled
 trial. Lancet Oncol 2009;10(1):25-34.
 4. Escudier B, EisenT, Stadler WM et al. Sorafenib in advanced clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma. N Engl J
 Med 2007;356(2):125-134.
 5. Escudier B, Eisen T, Stadler WM et al. Sorafenib for Treatment of Renal Cell Carcinoma:Final Efficacy
 and Safety Results of the Phase III Treatment Approaches in Renal Cancer Global Evaluation Trial. J
 Clin Oncol 2009;27(20):33123318.
 6. Brose MS, Nutting CM et al. Sorafenib in radioactive iodine-refractory, locally advanced or metastatic
 differentiated thyroid cancer: a randomized, double-blind, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2014;384(9940):319-
 328
 7. Gupta-Abramson et al. Phase II Trial of Sorafenib in Advanced Thyroid Cancer. J Clin Oncol
 2008;26:4714-4719.
 8. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 9. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 10. Sorafenib (NEXAVAR®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated 28/03/2025. Accessed June
 2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/nexavar-epar-
 product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 3/5/2016 Applied new NCCP regimen template Prof Maccon Keane
 2 30/06/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen template Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Update of dose modifications for renal
 3 27/05/2020 and hepatic impairment, emetogenic potential Prof Maccon Keane
 and adverse events.
 Reviewed. Updated
 -Eligibility criteria
 -Added caution section
 -Exclusion criteria
 4 27/08/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 - Renal and hepatic dose modifications to align
 with Giraud et al 2023.
 - Updated regimen in line with NCCP
 standardisation

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Published: 03/05/2016
NCCP Regimen: SORAfenib Therapy Version number: 4
 Review: 27/08/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal/Genitourinary/
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
Head and Neck Page 4 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00294
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please checkwww.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
