NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Topotecan Monotherapy – Weeklyi
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the ovary after failure C56 00312a N/A
 of first-line or subsequent therapy
 Treatment of patients with metastatic carcinoma of the fallopian tubes C57 00312b N/A
 after failure of first-line or subsequent therapyi
 Treatment of patients with metastatic peritoneal carcinoma after failure of C48 00312c N/A
 first-line or subsequent therapyi
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patient’s individual clinical circumstances.

 Topotecan is administered on days 1, 8 and 15 of a 28 day cycle until disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity develops, whichever occurs first.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 1, 8 and 15 Topotecan 4mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL NaCla 0.9% over Every 28 days
 30 minutes
 a
 Topotecan should be diluted to a final concentration of between 25 and 50 microgram/mL.
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG status 0-2*
  Adequate organ function; ANC > 1.5 x109 cells/L, platelets 100 x109/L
 *Selected patients with ECOG status 3 due to disease burden may be eligible at consultant discretion and with
 planned close monitoring for toxicity and clinical benefit and prophylactic GCSF support

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to topotecan or any of the excipients
  Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

NCCP Regimen: Topotecan Monotherapy- Published: 08/04/2016
 Version number: 5
Weekly Review: 16/04/2030
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00312
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile before each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Haematological:
 G-CSF may be used to maintain neutrophil counts or dose reduction may be used as shown in table 1 for
 cycles 2-6

 Table 1: Dose modification of topotecan in haematological toxicity
 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets Haemoglobin level Dose
 9
 (x10 /L)
 ≥1 and ≥ 100 ≥ 9 g/dl (after 100% Dose
 transfusion if necessary
 0.5 to 0.99 and/or <100 < 9g/dl Delay treatment until recovery.
 Following recovery from neutropenia, consider
 dose reduction.
 <0.5 for ≥ 7 days and/or < 25
 Febrile neutropenia Consider dose reduction.
 Neutropenia with infection

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of topotecan in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose Bilirubin (micromol/L) Dose
 ≥40 No dose adjustment is ≤171 No need for dose
 needed adjustment is expected
 20-39 50% of the original dose >171 Not recommended

 <20 Not recommended, if
 unavoidable consider 25% of
 Haemodialysis the original dose
 Renal and hepatic recommendations: Giraud et al 2023

NCCP Regimen: Topotecan Monotherapy- Published: 08/04/2016
 Version number: 5
Weekly Review: 16/04/2030
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00312
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of topotecan for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade ≥ 3 (except nausea) Decrease dose by 25%
 Interstitial lung disease Discontinue

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting Available
 on the NCCP website

Topotecan: Low (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: None

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  G-CSF may be required to mitigate the risk of haematological toxicities (Refer to local policy).

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
1. Sehouli, J., D. Stengel, P. Harter, et al. 2011. Topotecan Weekly Versus Conventional 5Day Schedule in
 Patients with Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer: a randomized multicenter phase II trial of the North
 Eastern German Society of Gynecological Oncology Ovarian Cancer Study Group. J Clin Oncol
 2011;29(2):242-248.
2. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or hepatic
 impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
3. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting. V6
 2025. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

NCCP Regimen: Topotecan Monotherapy- Published: 08/04/2016
 Version number: 5
Weekly Review: 16/04/2030
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00312
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

4. Topotecan (Hycamtin®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 27/09/2024. Accessed
 March 2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/hycamtin-
 epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 04/04/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 18/04/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen Prof Maccon Keane
 template, standardization of treatment
 table and dosing in renal and hepatic
 impairment
 3 29/04/2020 Regimen review Prof Maccon Keane
 4 15/07/2020 Update dose modifications for Prof Maccon Keane
 haematological toxicity
 5 16/04/2025 Regimen review. Eligibility section Prof Maccon Keane
 updated. Dose modifications in renal
 and hepatic impairment aligned to
 Giraud et al. Other supportive care
 section updated. Regimen updated in
 line with NCCP standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i
 This is an unlicensed indication for the use of topotecan in Ireland.. Patients should be informed of the
 unlicensed nature of this indication and consented to treatment in line with the hospital’s policy on the use
 of unlicensed medication and unlicensed or “off label” indications. Prescribers should be aware of their
 responsibility in communicating any relevant information to the patient and also in ensuring that the
 unlicensed or “off label” indication has been acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs and Therapeutics
 Committee, or equivalent, in line with hospital policy.

NCCP Regimen: Topotecan Monotherapy- Published: 08/04/2016
 Version number: 5
Weekly Review: 16/04/2030
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00312
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
