NCCP National SACT Regimen

 SUNitinib 37.5mg Therapy- 28days
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well-differentiated pancreatic C25 00327a CDS
 neuroendocrine tumours (pNET) with disease progression in adults
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 The recommended dose of SUNitinib is 37.5mg taken orally, once daily continuously until disease
 progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. A treatment cycles consists of 4 weeks of treatment (28
 days).

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 SUNitiniba 37.5mg daily PO once daily at the same time every day, consistently either with or Continuous
 without food. Swallow whole with a glass of water
 aCommonly available in 12.5mg/25mg/37.5 mg and 50mg hard capsules

 If a dose is missed, the patient should NOT be given an additional dose. The patient should take the usual prescribed dose on the
 following day.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to SUNitinib, or any of the excipients
  Uncontrolled hypertension
  Pregnancy
  Breastfeeding

 CAUTIONS:
  SUNitinib should be used with caution in patients with a known history of QT interval
 prolongation, patients who are taking antiarrhythmics or medicinal products that can prolong
 QT interval, or patients with relevant pre-existing cardiac disease, bradycardia, or electrolyte
 disturbances
  Concomitant administration of SUNitinib with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should be limited
 because of the possible increase in SUNitinib plasma concentrations
  Significant cardiovascular disease and/or LVEF < 55
NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 37.5mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 5
28 days Review: 15/09/2030
Tumour Group: Neuroendocrine ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00327
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Cardiac assessment as clinically indicated
  Thyroid Function tests
  Blood pressure
  MUGA scan or echocardiogram if clinically indicated or history of cardiac problems

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
  Thyroid function tests every 12 weeks
  Assess blood pressure at each attendance or appointment
  MUGA scan or echocardiogram as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant .Dose interruptions may be
 required based on individual safety and tolerability
  Dose modifications in 12.5 mg steps may be applied based on individual safety and
 tolerability
 o Dose level -1 : 25mg
 o Dose level +1 : 50mg
  A dose increase to a maximum of 62.5mg should be considered if SUNitinib must be co-
 administered with a CYP3A4 inducer. If dose is increased, the patient should be monitored
 carefully for toxicity
  Co-administration of SUNitinib with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, should be avoided. If this is
 not possible, the dose of SUNitinib may need to be reduced to a minimum of 25 mg daily for
 based on careful monitoring of tolerability
  Dose escalation: May increase to +1 dose level if no response after 8 weeks, with grade 1 or
 lower non-haematologic or grade 2 or lower haematologic treatment related adverse events

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modification of SUNitinib in haematological toxicity
 9 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets (x10 /L) Dose

 ≥1 and ≥ 75 100%
 <1 or < 75 Delay

NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 37.5mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 5
28 days Review: 15/09/2030
Tumour Group: Neuroendocrine ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00327
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of SUNitinib in renal and hepatic impairment

 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Renal impairment: no dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B: no dose adjustment is needed

 Haemodialysis: no initial dose adjustment is needed, Child-Pugh C: consider 75% of the original dose,
 increase dose based on sunitinib + increase if tolerated
 active metabolite trough
 concentration levels
 Recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of SUNitinib for Adverse Events

 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 1-2 reactions* 100%
 Grade 3-4 Delay until toxicity resolves to Grade 1.
 Dose reduce by 1 dose level
 Hand foot syndrome (Palmar-plantar Grade 2 or 3: Delay treatment until toxicity has resolved to Grade
 erythrodysaesthesia) 1 or less and reduce the dose for subsequent cycles from the 2 nd
 occurrence of a grade 2 reaction and the 1st occurrence of a grade
 3 reaction.
 Cardiac Toxicity For asymptomatic decline in LVEF: delay treatment until recovery
 and consider dose reduction for subsequent cycles.
 For symptomatic decline in LVEF: Discontinue sunitinib
 *With the exception of hand foot syndrome and cardiac toxicity

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting-
 Available on the NCCP website

 SUNitinib: Minimal - Low (Refer to local policy).

 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS: None required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 Anti-diarrhoeal treatment may be required

NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 37.5mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 5
28 days Review: 15/09/2030
Tumour Group: Neuroendocrine ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00327
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ADVERSE EFFECTS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.
  Cardiac Toxicity: Cardiovascular events, including heart failure, cardiomyopathy, and myocardial
 ischemia and myocardial infarction, some of which were fatal, have been reported in patients treated
 with SUNitinib. These data suggest that SUNitinib increases the risk of cardiomyopathy. No specific
 additional risk factors for SUNitinib-induced cardiomyopathy apart from the drug-specific effect have
 been identified in the treated patients. Use SUNitinib with caution in patients who are at risk for, or
 who have a history of, these events. Baseline and periodic evaluations of LVEF should also be
 considered while the patient is receiving SUNitinib.
  In the presence of clinical manifestations of CHF, discontinuation of SUNitinib is recommended. The
 administration of SUNitinib should be interrupted and/or the dose reduced in patients without
 clinical evidence of CHF but with an ejection fraction <50% and >20% below baseline.
  Hypertension: Patients should be screened for hypertension and controlled as appropriate.
 Temporary suspension is recommended in patients with severe hypertension that is not controlled
 with medical management. Treatment may be resumed once hypertension is appropriately
 controlled.
  Aneurysms and artery dissections: The use of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway
 inhibitors in patients with or without hypertension may promote the formation of aneurysms and/or
 artery dissections. Before initiating SUNitinib, this risk should be carefully considered in patients with
 risk factors such as hypertension or history of aneurysm.
  Hypothyroidism: Baseline laboratory measurement of thyroid function is recommended in all
 patients. Patients with pre- existing hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism should be treated as per
 standard medical practice prior to the start of SUNitinib treatment. During SUNitinib treatment,
 routine monitoring of thyroid function should be performed. Patients who develop thyroid
 dysfunction should be treated as per standard medical practice. Hypothyroidism has been observed
 to occur early as well as late during treatment with SUNitinib.
  Skin and tissue disorders: Skin discolouration, possibly due to the active substance colour (yellow),
 is a very common adverse reaction occurring in approximately 30% of patients. Patients should be
 advised that depigmentation of the hair or skin may also occur during treatment with SUNitinib.
 Other possible dermatologic effects may include dryness, thickness or cracking of the skin, blisters,
 or occasional rash on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The above reactions were not
 cumulative, were typically reversible and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation.
  Cases of pyoderma gangrenosum, generally reversible after drug discontinuation, have been
 reported. Severe cutaneous reactions have been reported, including cases of erythema multiforme
 (EM) and cases suggestive of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN),
 some of which were fatal. If signs or symptoms of SJS, TEN, or EM (e.g.progressive skin rash often
 with blisters or mucosal lesions) are present, SUNitinib treatment should be discontinued. If the
 diagnosis of SJS or TEN is confirmed, treatment must not be re-started. In some cases of suspected
 EM, patients tolerated the reintroduction of SUNitinib therapy at a lower dose after resolution of the
 reaction; some of these patients also received concomitant treatment with corticosteroids or

NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 37.5mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 5
28 days Review: 15/09/2030
Tumour Group: Neuroendocrine ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00327
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 antihistamines.
  Wound healing: This treatment may impair wound healing and temporary interruption of treatment
 is recommended in patients undergoing major surgical procedures.
  Haemorrhage and tumour bleeding: Haemorrhagic events, some of which were fatal, reported
 through post-marketing experience have included gastro-intestinal, respiratory, urinary tract and
 brain haemorrhages. Patients receiving concomitant treatment with anticoagulants) may be
 periodically monitored by complete blood counts (platelets), coagulation factors (PT/INR) and
 physical examination.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Raymond, E et al. SUNitinib malate for the treatment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. N Engl J
 Med 2011;364;6:501-513.
 2. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 4. SUNitinib (SUTENT®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 27 Nov 2019. Accessed
 March 2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/sutent-
 epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 03/06/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated with new NCCP regimen template
 2 30/05/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 and updated interactions
 Updated adverse effects/regimen specific
 3 23/10/2019 events regarding aortic aneurysms and Prof Maccon Keane
 dissections as per SmPC update
 4 13/05/2020 Reviewed. Updated emetogenic potential Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Title amendment. Addition of
 cautions section. Updated testing section.
 Updated renal and hepatic dose modifications
 5 15/09/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 to align with Giraud et al 2023. Regimen
 updated in line with NCCP standardisation.
 ATC code removed.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 37.5mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 5
28 days Review: 15/09/2030
Tumour Group: Neuroendocrine ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00327
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
