NCCP National SACT Regimen

 SUNitinib 50mg Therapy – 42 days
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of unresectable and/or metastatic malignant gastrointestinal C26, 00325a CDS
 stromal tumour (GIST) in adults after failure of imatinib treatment due to C49
 resistance or intolerance.
 Treatment of advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) in adults. C64 00325b CDS
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 The recommended dose of SUNitinib is 50mg taken orally, once daily for 4 weeks followed by a 2 week
 rest period to comprise a complete cycle of 6 weeks (42 days).

 Treatment is administered continuously until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.

 Day Drug Dose Route
 1-28 SUNitinib 50mg daily PO once daily with or without food.
 Swallow whole with a glass of water.
 29-42 REST PERIOD
 If a dose is missed, the patient should NOT be given an additional dose. The patient should take the
 usual prescribed dose on the following day.
 SUNitinib is commonly available in 12.5mg/25mg/37.5 mg and 50mg hard capsules

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to SUNitinib, or any of the excipients
  Uncontrolled hypertension
  Pregnancy
  Breastfeeding

 CAUTIONS:
 SUNitinib should be used with caution in patients with a known history of QT interval
 prolongation, patients who are taking antiarrhythmics or medicinal products that can prolong QT
 interval, or patients with relevant pre-existing cardiac disease, bradycardia, or electrolyte
 disturbances
NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 50mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2018
 Version number: 6
42 days Review: 14/07/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma/Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00325
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Concomitant administration of SUNitinib with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should be limited because
 of the possible increase in SUNitinib plasma concentrations
  History of cardiac disease. Consider the risk/ benefit of treatment

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Cardiac assessment as clinically indicated
  Thyroid Function tests
  Blood pressure
  MUGA scan or echocardiogram if clinically indicated or history of cardiac problems

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
  Thyroid function tests every 12 weeks
  Assess blood pressure at each attendance or appointment
  MUGA scan or echocardiogram as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Dose interruptions may be required based on individual safety and tolerability
  For GIST and MRCC, dose modifications in 12.5 mg steps may be applied based on individual
 safety and tolerability
 o Dose level -1 : 37.5mg
 o Dose level -2 : 25mg
  Daily dose should not be decreased below 25 mg.
  A dose increase to a maximum of 87.5 mg (GIST and RCC) should be considered if SUNitinib
 must be co-administered with a CYP3A4 inducer. If dose is increased, the patient should be
 monitored carefully for toxicity
  Co-administration of SUNitinib with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, should be avoided. If this is
 not possible, the dose of SUNitinib may need to be reduced to a minimum of 37.5mg daily
 for GIST and mRCCbased on careful monitoring of tolerability

NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 50mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2018
 Version number: 6
42 days Review: 14/07/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma/Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00325
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modification of SUNitinib in haematological toxicity
 9 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets (x10 /L) Dose

 ≥1 and ≥ 75 100%
 <1 or < 75 Delay

 Renal and hepatic impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of SUNitinib in renal and hepatic impairment

 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B: No dose adjustment is needed

 Haemodialysis: No initial dose adjustment is Child-Pugh C: Consider 75% of the original dose,
 needed, increase dose based increase if tolerated
 on SUNitinib and active
 metabolite trough
 concentration levels.
 Recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of SUNitinib for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 1-2 reactions* 100%
 Grade 3-4 Delay until toxicity resolves to Grade 1.
 Dose reduce by 1 dose level
 Hand foot syndrome (Palmar-plantar Grade 2 or 3: Delay treatment until toxicity has resolved to Grade
 erythrodysaesthesia) 1 or less and reduce the dose for subsequent cycles from the 2 nd
 occurrence of a grade 2 reaction and the 1st occurrence of a grade
 3 reaction.
 Cardiac Toxicity For asymptomatic decline in LVEF: delay treatment until recovery
 and consider dose reduction for subsequent cycles.
 For symptomatic decline in LVEF: Discontinue sunitinib
 *With the exception of hand foot syndrome and cardiac toxicity

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

SUNitinib: Minimal - Low (Refer to local policy)

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 50mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2018
 Version number: 6
42 days Review: 14/07/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma/Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00325
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

PREMEDICATIONS: None required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Anti-diarrhoeal treatment may be required

ADVERSE EFFECTS:

  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:

  Haemorrhage and tumour bleeding: Haemorrhagic events, some of which were fatal, reported
 through post-marketing experience have included gastro-intestinal, respiratory, urinary tract and
 brain haemorrhages. Patients receiving concomitant treatment with anticoagulants) may be
 periodically monitored by complete blood counts (platelets), coagulation factors (PT/INR) and
 physical examination.
  Hypertension: Patients should be screened for hypertension and controlled as appropriate.
 Temporary suspension is recommended in patients with severe hypertension that is not controlled
 with medical management. Treatment may be resumed once hypertension is appropriately
 controlled.
  Aneurysms and artery dissections: The use of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway
 inhibitors in patients with or without hypertension may promote the formation of aneurysms and/or
 artery dissections. Before initiating SUNitinib, this risk should be carefully considered in patients with
 risk factors such as hypertension or history of aneurysm.
  Hypothyroidism: Baseline laboratory measurement of thyroid function is recommended in all
 patients. Patients with pre- existing hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism should be treated as per
 standard medical practice prior to the start of SUNitinib treatment. During SUNitinib treatment,
 routine monitoring of thyroid function should be performed. Patients who develop thyroid
 dysfunction should be treated as per standard medical practice. Hypothyroidism has been observed
 to occur early as well as late during treatment with SUNitinib.
  Skin and tissue disorders: Skin discolouration, possibly due to the active substance colour (yellow),
 is a very common adverse reaction occurring in approximately 30% of patients. Patients should be
 advised that depigmentation of the hair or skin may also occur during treatment with SUNitinib.
 Other possible dermatologic effects may include dryness, thickness or cracking of the skin, blisters,
 or occasional rash on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The above reactions were not
 cumulative, were typically reversible and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation.
 Cases of pyoderma gangrenosum, generally reversible after drug discontinuation, have been
 reported. Severe cutaneous reactions have been reported, including cases of erythema multiforme
 (EM) and cases suggestive of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN),
 some of which were fatal. If signs or symptoms of SJS, TEN, or EM (e.g.progressive skin rash often
 with blisters or mucosal lesions) are present, SUNitinib treatment should be discontinued. If the
 diagnosis of SJS or TEN is confirmed, treatment must not be re-started. In some cases of suspected
 EM, patients tolerated the reintroduction of SUNitinib therapy at a lower dose after resolution of
 the reaction; some of these patients also received concomitant treatment with corticosteroids or
 antihistamines.
NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 50mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2018
 Version number: 6
42 days Review: 14/07/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma/Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00325
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Wound healing: This treatment may impair wound healing and temporary interruption of treatment
 is recommended in patients undergoing major surgical procedures.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Demetri, GD., van Oosterom, AT, et al. Efficacy and safety of SUNitinib in patients with advanced
 gastrointestinal stromal tumour after failure of imatinib: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2006;.
 368(9544): 1329-1338.
 2. Choueiri TK et al. Efficacy of SUNitinib and sorafenib in metastatic papillary and chromophobe renal
 cell carcinoma. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26:127
 3. Motzer R, et al: Phase III randomized trial of SUNitinib malate (SU11248) versus interferon-alfa (IFN-
 a) as first-line systemic therapy for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. NEJM 356;2: 115-
 124, 2007
 4. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 6. SUNitinib (SUTENT®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed May 2025. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/sutent-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated with new NCCP regimen template
 2 30/05/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 and drug interations
 Updated adverse effects/regimen specific
 3 23/10/2019 events regarding aortic aneurysms and Prof Maccon Keane
 dissections as per SmPC update
 4 13/05/2020 Update of emetogenic potential Prof Maccon Keane
 Regimen reviewed. Title amendment.
 Updated ICD-10 code. Updated exclusions
 section. Addition of cautions section. Updated
 5 14/07/2025 testing section. Updated dose modifications in Prof Maccon Keane
 renal and hepatic impairment table to align
 with Giraud et al 2023. Regimen updated in
 line with NCCP standardisation.
 Update to dose modifications table for
 6 17/10/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 adverse events.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: SUNitinib 50mg Therapy- Published: 03/06/2018
 Version number: 6
42 days Review: 14/07/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma/Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00325
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
