NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Temsirolimus Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 First-line treatment of adult patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma C64 00326a N/A
 (RCC) who have at least three of six prognostic risk factors.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Temsirolimus is administered once every 7 days by IV infusion until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity occurs (4 weeks = 1 cycle).

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1,8,15 and 22 Temsirolimus 25mg IV 250mL NaCl 0.9% over 30 minutes Every 28 days
 In line filter with non-PVC tubing should be used with temsirolimus infusion
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indication as above
  ECOG 0-2

 CAUTIONS:
  Caution is advised for patients with pre-existing significant lung compromise due to the risk for
 pneumonitis

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to temsirolimus, its metabolites (including sirolimus), polysorbate 80 or any of the
 excipients
  Pregnancy
  Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 Published: 03/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Temsirolimus Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 13/06/2030
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00326
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Total cholesterol and triglycerides
  Fasting serum glucose
  Chest X-ray

 Regular tests:
  FBC weekly
  Renal and liver profile every 4 weeks
  Total cholesterol and triglycerides as clinically indicated
  Monitoring of fasting serum glucose as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Management of severe and/or intolerable suspected adverse reactions may require dose
 reduction and/or temporary interruption of temsirolimus therapy
  If a suspected reaction is not manageable with dose delays, then temsirolimus may be
 reduced by 5 mg/week decrements.
 o Dose level -1 : 20mg
 o Dose level -2 : 15mg

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modification of temsirolimus for haematological toxicity
 9 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets (x10 /L) Dose

 ≥1 and ≥ 75 No dose adjustment required
 <1 or < 75 Hold until ANC ≥1 x 109/L and/or platelets recover to ≥75x109/L.
 Reduce dose by 5mg.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of temsirolimus in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No dose adjustment is needed Mild to No dose adjustment is needed
 moderate
 Haemodialysis no need for dose
 Severe 40% of the original dose
 adjustment is expected

 Recommendations for temsirolimus from Giraud et al 2023

 Published: 03/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Temsirolimus Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 13/06/2030
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00326
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of temsirolimus for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 0-2 100%
 Grade 2 adverse events that are persistent and intolerable can result in dose
 delays or dose reductions to the next lower dose level.
 Grade 3-4 Hold therapy until recovery to Grade 0-2.
 If recovery within 3 weeks, reduce dose by one dose level for subsequent
 treatment.

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting- Available on
 the NCCP website

Temsirolimus: Low (Refer to local policy).

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS:
Patients should be given intravenous diphenhydramine 25 mg to 50 mg (or similar antihistamine)
approximately 30 minutes before the start of each dose of temsirolimus.

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
No specific recommendations

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Hudes G, Carducci M, Tomczak P et al. Temsirolimus, Interferon Alfa, or Both for Advanced Renal-
 Cell Carcinoma. NEJM 2007;356 (22): 2271-2281
 2. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 3. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 4. Temsirolimus (Torisel ®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 08/07/2024. Accessed
 April 2025. Available at https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/torisel-
 epar-product-information_en.pdf
 Published: 03/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Temsirolimus Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 13/06/2030
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00326
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 03/06/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated with new NCCP regimen
 2 30/05/2018 template. Standardisation of Prof Maccon Keane
 treatment table.
 3 27/05/2020 Reviewed. Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Regimen updated in line
 with NCCP standardisation. Renal
 4 13/06/2025 and Hepatic dose modifications table Prof Maccon Keane
 updated in line with Giraud et al
 2023.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 03/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Temsirolimus Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 13/06/2030
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00326
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
