NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Therapy (XELOX)
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Adjuvant treatment of stage III (Dukes C) colon cancer after C18 00321a N/A
 complete resection of the primary tumour
 Treatment of advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer C18 00321b N/A
 Adjuvant stage II/III gastric adenocarcinoma post D2 C16 00321c N/A
 gastrectomy
 *This is for post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Oxaliplatin is administered on day 1 and capecitabine is taken twice daily for two weeks (days 1-14)
 followed by a 7 day rest period on days 15-21. This 21 day (3-week) period is considered a treatment
 cycle.

 Adjuvant treatment: Treatment is recommended for a total of 3 months (4 cycles) or 6 months (8 cycles)
 at the discretion of the prescribing consultant.

 Treatment for metastatic disease is until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.
 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 1 Oxaliplatina 130mg/m2 IV infusion 500mL glucose 5% over 2 Every 21
 hoursb days

 1-14 Capecitabine 1000mg/m2 Twice Daily c, d, e PO with food N/A Every 21
 days
 a Oxaliplatin is incompatible with NaCl 0.9%. Do not piggyback or flush lines with NaCl 0.9%.
 For oxaliplatin doses ≤ 104mg use 250mL glucose 5%.
 b
 Increase infusion rate time to 4 – 6 hours in case of laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia reaction.
 C The dose to be administered should consider the available tablet strengths.

 Please refer to the NCCP DOSE BANDING TABLES Available on the NCCP website for capecitabine.
 Tablets should be swallowed whole with plenty of water with food or within 30 minutes of eating. Tablets should not be crushed or cut.
 d (Total daily dose = 2000mg/m2)

 e
 See dose modifications section for patients with identified partial dihydropyrimdine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency
 Capecitabine is commonly available in 150mg and 500mg film-coated tablets.
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

NCCP Regimen: Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 9
Therapy (XELOX) Review: 11/11/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00321
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • ECOG status 0-2

 CAUTION:
 • Use with caution in patients with clinically significant cardiovascular disease

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to capecitabine, oxaliplatin or any of the excipients
 • Known complete dihydropyrimdine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency
 • Pregnancy and breastfeeding
 • Severe leucopenia, neutropenia or thrombocytopenia
 • Severe hepatic or renal impairment
 • Peripheral neuropathy with functional impairment prior to first cycle

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 • INR tests if patient is on warfarin (as clinically indicated)
 • DPD testing prior to first treatment with capecitabine using phenotype and/or genotype testing
 unless patient has been previously tested
 o In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, blood uracil levels used for DPD
 phenotyping should be interpreted with caution, as impaired kidney function can lead to
 increased uracil blood levels. Consequently, there is an increased risk for incorrect
 diagnosis of DPD deficiency, which may result in under dosing of 5-Fluorouracil or other
 fluoropyrimidines, leading to reduced treatment efficacy. Genotype testing for DPD
 deficiency should be considered for patients with renal impairment

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
 • INR tests if patient is on warfarin (as clinically indicated)

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
 • Consider a reduced starting dose of capecitabine in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency
 o Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment. In the absence of
 serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful monitoring
 • Toxicity due to capecitabine administration may be managed by symptomatic treatment and/or
 modification of the dose (treatment interruption or dose reduction)
NCCP Regimen: Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 9
Therapy (XELOX) Review: 11/11/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00321
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Once the dose has been reduced, it should not be increased at a later time
 • For those toxicities considered by the treating physician to be unlikely to become serious or life-
 threatening, e.g. alopecia, altered taste, nail changes, treatment can be continued at the same
 dose without reduction or interruption
 • Patients taking capecitabine should be informed of the need to interrupt treatment immediately
 if moderate or severe toxicity occurs
 • Doses of capecitabine omitted for toxicity are not replaced
 • Dose reductions to manage chemotherapy-induced adverse reactions for oxaliplatin and
 capecitabine and are outlined in Tables 1-8 below

 Haematological:
 Patients with baseline neutrophil counts< 1.5x109/L and/or platelet counts of<100 x 109/L should
 not be treated with capecitabine.

 Table 1: Dose reduction levels for oxaliplatin and capecitabine for non-neurologic toxicity
 Drug Dose Dose -1 Dose-2 Dose-3
 Oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 100 mg/m2 85 mg/m2 Discontinue
 Capecitabine 1000mg/m2 BD 750 mg/m2 BD 500 mg/m2 BD Discontinue

 Table 2: Dose Modifications for Haematological Toxicity
 TOXICITY Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Prior to a Cycles (DAY 1) Grade ANC Oxaliplatin Capecitabine
 (x 109/L)
 • If ANC< 1.2 on Day 1 of cycle, hold 1 ≥ 1.2 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 treatment, weekly FBC, maximum 2 1-1.19 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 of 2 times 3 0.5-0.99  1 dose level  1 dose level
 • ANC ≥ 1.2 within 2 weeks, proceed 4 <0.5  2 dose levels  2 dose levels
 with treatment at the dose level
 noted across from the lowest ANC
 result of the delayed week(s).
 • If ANC remains < 1.2 after 2 weeks
 discontinue treatment
 Grade Platelets Oxaliplatin Capecitabine
 (x109/L)
 • If platelets < 75 on Day 1 of cycle, 1 ≥ 75 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 hold treatment, weekly FBC, 2 50-74.9 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 maximum of 2 weeks 3 10-49.9  1 dose level  1 dose level
 • Platelets ≥ 75 within 2weeks, 4 <10  2 dose levels  2 dose levels
 proceed with treatment at the
 dose level noted across from the
 lowest platelets result of the
 delayed week(s).
 • If platelets remains <75 after 2
 weeks discontinue treatment

NCCP Regimen: Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 9
Therapy (XELOX) Review: 11/11/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00321
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Dose modification of capecitabine and oxalipatin in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose
 Capecitabine* 51-80 No dose adjustment is needed No dose adjustment is needed.
 30-50 75% of original dose
 <30 Not recommended
 Haemodialysis Not recommended
 Oxaliplatin ≥30 No dose adjustment is needed. No dose adjustment is needed
 <30 Consider 50% of the original dose
 Haemodialysis Consider 50% of the original dose,
 Haemodialysis within 90 minutes after
 administration

 Renal and hepatic recommended as per Giraud et al 2023.
 *Reference Table 5 for dose modification of capecitabine in treatment related hepatotoxicity

 Management of adverse events:
 Non-Haematological and Non-neurological Toxicities:
 If Grade 2, 3 or 4 toxicities occur, daily administration of capecitabine should be immediately interrupted
 until these symptoms resolve or decrease in intensity to grade 1.

 Table 4: Dose Modifications for Non-Haematologic, Non-Neurologic Toxicity
 Prior to a Cycle (Day 1) Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Diarrhoea Grade ** Oxaliplatin Capecitabine
 • If diarrhoea grade 2 on Day 1 of any cycle, hold 1 Increase of < 4 stools/day Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 treatment. Perform weekly checks maximum 2 over baseline
 times. 2 Increase of 4 to 6 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 • If diarrhoea < Grade 2 within 2 weeks, proceed stools/day over baseline
 with treatment at the dose level noted across 3 Increase of ≥7 stools/day Maintain dose level  1 dose level
 from the Highest grade experienced. 4 aIncrease of 10 or more  1 dose level  2 dose levels*
 • If diarrhoea remains Grade 2 after 2 weeks, stools/day or grossly
 discontinue treatment. bloody diarrhoea; may
 require parenteral support.
 Urgent intervention
 indicated
 Stomatitis Grade ** Oxaliplatin Capecitabine
 • If stomatitis ≥ Grade 2 on Day 1 of any cycle, 1 Asymptomatic or mild Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 hold treatment. Perform weekly checks, symptoms; intervention
 maximum 2 times. not indicated
 • If stomatitis < Grade 2 within 2 weeks, 2 Moderate pain or ulcer Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 proceed with treatment at the dose level that does not interfere
 noted across from the highest Grade with oral intake; modified
 experienced. diet indicated
 • If stomatitis remains ≥Grade 2 after 2 weeks, 3 Severe pain; interfering Maintain dose level  1 dose level
 discontinue treatment. with oral intake
 4 aAs above but mucosal  1 dose level  2 dose levels*
 necrosis and/or requires
 enteral support,
 dehydration.
NCCP Regimen: Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 9
Therapy (XELOX) Review: 11/11/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00321
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Urgent intervention
 indicated
 Palmar-Plantar Erythrodysaesthesia (Hand-Foot Grade ** Oxaliplatin Capecitabine
 Syndrome)
 • If hand-foot skin reaction ≥ Grade 2 on Day 1 1 Minimal skin changes or Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 of any cycle, hold treatment. Perform weekly dermatitis (e.g., erythema,
 checks, maximum 2 times. edema, or hyperkeratosis)
 • If hand-foot skin reaction is < Grade 2 within 2 without pain
 weeks, proceed with treatment at the dose 2 Skin changes (e.g., peeling, Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 level noted across from the highest Grade blisters, bleeding, fissures,
 experienced edema, or hyperkeratosis)
 • If hand-foot skin reaction remains ≥ Grade 2 with pain; limiting
 after 2 weeks, discontinue treatment. instrumental ADL
 3 Severe skin changes (e.g., Maintain dose level  1 dose level
 peeling, blisters, bleeding,
 fissures, edema, or
 hyperkeratosis) with pain;
 limiting self care ADL
 *If treatment with capecitabine is discontinued, then oxaliplatin is also discontinued. **AE Grading CTCAEv5.0

 Treatment related hepatotoxicity
 Table 5: Dose modification of capecitabine in treatment related hepatotoxicity
 Bilirubin ALT, AST Dose Modification
 > 3 x ULN or > 2.5 x ULN Withhold treatment until bilirubin decreases to ≤ 3.0 x ULN or ALT, AST
 decrease to ≤ 2.5 x ULN

 Table 6: Dose modification of oxaliplatin due to oxaliplatin induced peripheral neuropathy
 Toxicity Grade Dose Modification of oxaliplatin
 Grade 1 100%
 Grade 2 paraesthesia persisting until next cycle Reduce dose to 100mg/m2
 Grade 3 paraesthesia > 7 days but resolved before next cycle Reduce dose to 100mg/m2
 Grade 3 paraesthesia persisting until next cycle Discontinue oxaliplatin
 Grade 4 of any duration Discontinue oxaliplatin

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

Oxaliplatin - Moderate (Refer to local policy).
Capecitabine - Low-Minimal (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

NCCP Regimen: Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 9
Therapy (XELOX) Review: 11/11/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00321
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required unless patient has had a previous hypersensitivity.

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Medication may be required for management of diarrhoea, e.g. loperamide (4mg at first onset followed by
2mg after each loose stool (max 16 mg /day) or see local policy.

ADVERSE EFFECTS
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
 • Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency: DPD is an enzyme encoded by the DPYD gene
 which is responsible for the breakdown of fluoropyrimidines. Patients with DPD deficiency are
 therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidine-related toxicity, including for example stomatitis,
 diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and neurotoxicity. Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil,
 capecitabine or tegafur-containing medicinal products is contraindicated in patients with known
 complete DPD deficiency. Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD
 deficiency. Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment. In the absence of serious
 toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful monitoring. Therapeutic drug monitoring
 (TDM) of fluorouracil may improve clinical outcomes in patients receiving continuous 5-fluorouracil
 infusions

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Consult current drug interaction databases and relevant SmPC for details

REFERENCES:
 1. Haller DG, Tabernero J, Maroun, J. et al. Capecitabine plus oxaliplatin compared with
 fluorouracil and folinic acid as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer. J Clin Oncol
 2011;29(11):1465-1471.
 2. Cassidy J, Clarke S, Diaz-Rubio E, et al. Randomized phase III study of capecitabine plus
 oxaliplatin compared with fluorouracil/folinic acid plus oxaliplatin as first-line therapy for
 metastatic colorectal cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26(12):2006-2012
 3. BCCA Protocol Summary for Adjuvant Combination Chemotherapy for Stage III and Stage IIB
 Colon Cancer using Oxaliplatin and Capecitabine (GIAJCAPOX) Mar 2018
 4. Grothey A et al. Duration of Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Stage III Colon Cancer. N Engl J Med.
 2018 Mar 29;378(13):1177-1188. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1713709. PMID: 29590544; PMCID:
 PMC6426127.Noh, S. H., S. R. Park, H. K. Yang, et al. 2014. "Adjuvant capecitabine plus
 oxaliplatin for gastric cancer after D2 gastrectomy (CLASSIC): 5-year follow-up of an open-
 label, randomised phase 3 trial." Lancet Oncol 15(12):1389-1396.
 5. Bang, Y. J., Y. W. Kim, H. K. Yang, et al. 2012. "Adjuvant capecitabine and oxaliplatin for gastric
 cancer after D2 gastrectomy (CLASSIC): a phase 3 open-label, randomised controlled trial."
 Lancet 379(9813):315-321.
 6. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients
 with renal or hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847

NCCP Regimen: Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 9
Therapy (XELOX) Review: 11/11/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00321
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 7. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 8. HPRA Direct Healthcare Professional Communication. 5-Fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and
 tegafur containing products: Pre-treatment testing to identify DPD-deficient patients at
 increased risk of severe toxicity. Last updated Oct 2024. Accessed Aug 2020 Available at:
 https://assets.hpra.ie/data/docs/default-source/product-updates/dhpc/human-
 medicines/label-for-dhpcs/medicines-containing-5-fluorouracil-(i-v-)---direct-healthcare-
 professional-communication-october-2024.pdf?sfvrsn=77aa96a6_1
 9. Capecitabine (Xeloda®) SmPC. Last updated:02/05/2025. Accessed 02/05/2025. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/xeloda-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 10. Oxaliplatin 5mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion. SmPC. Last updated: 03/05/2025
 .Accessed September 2025. Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/find-a-medicine/for-human-
 use/authorised-medicines/details/27562

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 03/06/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 30/05/2018 Applied new NCCP regimen template, Amended wording in Prof Maccon Keane
 exclusions with respect to DPD deficiency, updated dosing in renal
 impairment and clarified toxicity criteria for diarrhoea, stomatitis
 and hand-foot syndrome
 Added in the new indication ‘Adjuvant Stage II/III gastric
 3 07/09/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 adenocarcinoma post D2 gastrectomy’
 Updated treatment table for oxaliplatin administration Updated
 4 12/02/2020 recommended dose modifications for oxaliplatin in renal Prof Maccon Keane
 impairment
 Updated recommended dose modifications for capecitabine in
 5 11/03/2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 renal impairment
 Reviewed.
 Updated exclusion criteria, baseline testing, dose modifications
 and adverse events with respect to DPD deficiency as per DHPC
 6 24/08/2020 from HPRA June 2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated Adverse events regarding palmar-plantar
 erythrodysaesthesia

 7 23/09/2022 Amended adjuvant treatment duration Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed.
 Addtion of table 6 - Dose Modification of oxaliplatin due to
 oxaliplatin induced peripheral neuropathy. Update to footnotes in
 8 16/10/2024 treatment table. Updated eligibility section. Updated exclusions Prof Maccon Keane
 section. Updated renal and hepatic dose modifications table to
 align with Giraud et al 2023.
 Updated regimen in line with NCCP standardisation.
 8a 12/05/2025 Additional wording added to baseline testing section. NCCP
 8b 18/06/2025 Updated ICD-10 code for indication c. NCCP
 Reviewed. HSE approved reimbursement
 9 11/11/2025 Status updated. Drug interactions updated in line with NCCP Prof Maccon Keane
 standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin Published: 03/06/2016
 Version number: 9
Therapy (XELOX) Review: 11/11/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00321
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
