NCCP National SACT Regimen

 DOCEtaxel (75), CISplatin (100) and 5-Fluorouracil (1000)
 Chemoradiation (Induction) Therapy (TCF)
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 Induction treatment of patients with locally advanced Stage III or IV non- C76 00323a Hospital
 metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Induction Chemotherapy DOCEtaxel and CISplatin are administered on day 1 and 5-
 Fluorouracil is administered on days 1-4 of a 21 day cycle for 3
 cycles unless disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
 develops (Ref Treatment Table 1).
 Chemoradiation CARBOplatin AUC 1.5 weekly concomitantly with radiotherapy for
 In patients who do not have progressive disease and 7 weeks to start 3 to 8 weeks (day 22 to day 56) following start of
 with adequate bone marrow function third cycle of induction chemotherapy (Reference NCCP Regimen
 00322 CARBOplatin (AUC1.5) Chemoradiation Therapy-7 days).
 Surgery is then considered after completion of chemoradiation.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when the systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is
 administered on Day 1.

Table 1: Treatment Table for Induction Chemotherapy with DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and 5-Fluorouracil

 Admin. Route and Method
 Day Drug Dose Diluent & Rate Cycle
 Order of Administration
 1 1 DOCEtaxel 75mg/m2 IV infusion a
 250mL 0.9% NaCl over Every 21 days for 3
 60 minutes cycles
 b
 2 1 CISplatin 100mg/m2 IV infusion 1000mL 0.9% NaCl Every 21 days for 3
 over 2 hours cycles
 3 1-4 5-Fluorouracilc 1000mg/m2/ Continuous IV d
 Over 96 hours in 0.9% Every 21 days for 3
 day infusion NaCl cycles

 a75-185mg dose use 250mL infusion bag. For doses> 185mg use 500mL infusion bag
 Use non-PVC infusion bag.
 b Pre and post hydration therapy required for CISplatin

 See local hospital policy recommendations.
 Suggested pre hydration for CISplatin therapy:
 1. Administer 10mmol magnesium sulphate (MgSO4) (+/-KCl 10-20mmol/L if indicated) in 1000 mL 0.9% NaCl over 60 minutes.
 Administer CISplatin as described above.
 Post hydration: Administer 1000mL 0.9% NaCl over 60 minutes.
 Mannitol 10% may be used as per local policy to induce diuresis, although there is no conclusive evidence that this is required. The routine use of furosemide
 to increase urine flow is not recommended unless there is evidence of fluid overload (4, 5).
 cSee dose modifications section for patients with identified partial dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

 d
 Alternatively can be administered at 1000mg/m2 in 1000mL 0.9% NaCl as an intravenous infusion over 22 hours on days 1-4 for a total dose of
 4000mg/m2 over 96 hours.

NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Published: 03/05/2016
 Version number: 7b
5-Fluorouracil Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 13/05/2025
Tumour Group: Head & Neck ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00323
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  Life expectancy > 3months
  ECOG status 0-1
  Adequate organ function; ANC > 1.5 x109 cells/L, platelets 100 x109/L

EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to DOCEtaxel, CISplatin, 5-Fluorouracil or any of the excipients
  Pregnancy
  Lactation
  Pre-existing neuropathies ≥ grade 2
  Severe liver impairment
  Moderate/severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 60 mL/min)
  Significant hearing impairment/tinnitus
  Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  ECG (if patient has compromised cardiac function)
  Audiology and creatinine clearance if clinically indicated
  DPD testing prior to first treatment with 5-Fluorouracil using phenotype and/or genotype
 testing unless patient has been previously tested
 o In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, blood uracil levels used for
 dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) phenotyping should be interpreted with caution,
 as impaired kidney function can lead to increased uracil blood levels. Consequently, there
 is an increased risk for incorrect diagnosis of DPD deficiency, which may result in under
 dosing of 5-Fluorouracil or other fluoropyrimidines, leading to reduced treatment
 efficacy. Genotype testing for DPD deficiency should be considered for patients with renal
 impairment.

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile* before each cycle
 *See Adverse Effects/Regimen specific complications for guidelines regarding hepatic dysfunction with DOCEtaxel

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency
 o Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment

NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Published: 03/05/2016
 Version number: 7b
5-Fluorouracil Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 13/05/2025
Tumour Group: Head & Neck ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00323
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 oIn the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant

Haematological:
Table 2: Dose modifications for haematological toxicity
 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets
 9 Dose of DOCEtaxel
 (x10 /L)
 ≥ 1.5 and >100 100%
 <1.5 or <100 Delay until recovery
 Delay until recovery and reduce DOCEtaxel dose to
 <25
 60mg/m2
  If an episode of febrile neutropenia, prolonged neutropenia or neutropenic infection occurs despite G-
 CSF use, the DOCEtaxel dose should be reduced from 75 to 60 mg/m2.
  If subsequent episodes of complicated neutropenia occur the DOCEtaxel dose should be reduced from
 60 to 45 mg/m2.
  In case of Grade 4 thrombocytopenia the DOCEtaxel dose should be reduced from 75 to 60mg/m 2.
  In the pivotal SCCHN studies patients who experienced complicated neutropenia (including prolonged
 neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, or infection), it was recommended to use G-CSF to provide
 prophylactic coverage (e.g. day 6-15) in all subsequent cycles.

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
Table 3: Dose modification of DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and 5-Fluorouracil in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 DOCEtaxel No data available in patients Serum AST ALP Dose
 Bilirubin and/or
 with severely impaired renal
 ALT
 function > 1.5 ULN > 2.5
 and 75 mg/m2
 ULN
 Stop treatment
 > 3.5 ULN unless strictly
 and/ >6
 >ULN (AST and and indicated and
 or ULN
 ALT) should be discussed
 with a Consultant.
 CISplatin CrCl Dose No dose modifications for hepatic impairment
 (mL/min)
 ≥60 100%
 45-59 75%
 <45 Clinical decision.
 Consider using
 CARBOplatin
 5-Fluorouracil Consider dose reduction in Bilirubin AST Dose
 severe renal impairment only (micromol/L)
 <85 <180 100%
 >85 or >180 Contraindicated
 Clinical decision. Moderate hepatic impairment; reduce
 initial dose by 1/3.
 Severe hepatic impairment, reduce initial dose by 1/2.
 Increase dose if no toxicity.

NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Published: 03/05/2016
 Version number: 7b
5-Fluorouracil Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 13/05/2025
Tumour Group: Head & Neck ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00323
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 4: Dose modification schedule based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 3 diarrhoea
  1st episode  Reduce 5-Fluorouracil dose by 20%
  2 episode
 nd
  Reduce DOCEtaxel dose by 20%
 Grade 4 diarrhoea
  1st episode  Reduce DOCEtaxel and 5-Fluorouracil dose by 20%
  2nd episode  Discontinue treatment
 Grade 3 stomatitis/mucositis
  1st episode  Reduce 5-Fluorouracil dose by 20%
  2nd episode  Stop 5-Fluorouracil only, at all subsequent cycles
  3rd episode  Reduce DOCEtaxel dose by 20%
 Grade 4 stomatitis/mucositis
  1st episode  Stop 5-Fluorouracil only, at all subsequent cycles
  2nd episode  Reduce DOCEtaxel dose by 20%.
 Grade 3 skin reaction Decrease dose of DOCEtaxel to 60mg/m2.
 If the patient continues to experience these reactions at 60mg/m2,
 the treatment should be discontinued.
 Grade >2 peripheral neuropathy Decrease dose of DOCEtaxel to 60mg/m2.
 If the patient continues to experience these reactions at 60mg/m2,
 the treatment should be discontinued.
 Consider dose reduction of CISplatin at discretion of prescribing
 consultant.
 Grade ≥ 2 PPE Delay 5-Fluorouracil until recovery to Grade ≤ 1 and reduce
 subsequent doses of 5-Fluorouracil by 20%.

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

DOCEtaxel: Low (Refer to local policy).

CISplatin: High (Refer to local policy).

5-Fluorouracil: Low (Refer to local policy).

PREMEDICATIONS:

DOCEtaxel
  Dexamethasone 8 mg PO twice daily for 3 days, starting one day prior to each DOCEtaxel
 administration unless contraindicated. Patient must receive minimum of 3 doses pre-treatment
  Consideration may be given, at the discretion of the prescribing consultant, to the use of a single
 dose of dexamethasone 20mg IV immediately before chemotherapy where patients have missed
 taking the oral premedication dexamethasone as recommended by the manufacturer (6,7)

CISplatin
  Hydration prior and post CISplatin administration (Reference local policy or see recommendations
 above)

 NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Published: 03/05/2016
 Version number: 7b
 5-Fluorouracil Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 13/05/2025
 Tumour Group: Head & Neck ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00323
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Prophylactic G-CSF may be used to mitigate the risk of haematological toxicities. See comment above in
dose modifications.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
  Neutropenia: Most frequent adverse reaction. Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed
 promptly and treated appropriately. DOCEtaxel should be administered when the neutrophil count is
 > 1.5x109/L.
  Neutropenic Enterocolitis: A number of cases of neutropenic enterocolitis have been reported in
 patients treated with DOCEtaxel in France (8). This is a known and rare side effect of DOCEtaxel which
 may affect up to one in 1,000 people.
  Fluid Retention: Dexamethasone premedication must be given to reduce the incidence and severity
 of fluid retention. It can also reduce the severity of the hypersensitivity reaction.
  Hypersensitivity Reactions: Patients should be observed closely for hypersensitivity reactions
 especially during the first and second infusions. Hypersensitivity reactions may occur within a few
 minutes following the initiation of the infusion of DOCEtaxel, thus facilities for the treatment of
 hypotension and bronchospasm should be available. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, minor
 symptoms such as flushing or localized cutaneous reactions do not require interruption of therapy.
 However, severe reactions, such as severe hypotension, bronchospasm or generalised rash/erythema
 require immediate discontinuation of DOCEtaxel and appropriate therapy. Patients who have
 developed severe hypersensitivity reactions should not be re-challenged with DOCEtaxel.
  Extravasation: DOCEtaxel causes pain and tissue necrosis if extravasated (Refer to local extravasation
 guidelines).
  Hepatic Dysfunction: DOCEtaxel undergoes hepatic metabolism. Hepatic dysfunction (particularly
 elevated AST) may lead to increased toxicity and usually requires a dose reduction.
  Renal toxicity: Renal toxicity is common with CISplatin. Encourage oral hydration.
  Ototoxicity and sensory neural damage should be assessed by history prior to each cycle.
  Myocardial ischaemia and angina: Cardiotoxicity is a serious complication during treatment with 5-
 Fluorouracil. Patients, especially those with a prior history of cardiac disease or other risk factors,
 treated with 5-Fluorouracil, should be carefully monitored during therapy.
  DPD deficiency: DPD is an enzyme encoded by the DPYD gene which is responsible for the breakdown
 of fluoropyrimidines. Patients with DPD deficiency are therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidine-
 related toxicity, including for example stomatitis, diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and
 neurotoxicity. Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil, capecitabine or tegafur-containing medicinal products
 is contraindicated in patients with known complete DPD deficiency. Consider a reduced starting dose
 in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency. Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of
 treatment. In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of 5-Fluorouracil may improve clinical outcomes in
 patients receiving continuous 5-Fluorouracil infusions.
  Hand-foot syndrome (HFS), also known as palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE) has been
 reported as an unusual complication of high dose bolus or protracted continuous therapy for 5-
 Fluorouracil.

 NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Published: 03/05/2016
 Version number: 7b
 5-Fluorouracil Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 13/05/2025
 Tumour Group: Head & Neck ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00323
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Risk of drug interactions causing increased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inhibitors
 Patients should also be counselled with regard to consumption of grapefruit juice.
  Risk of drug interactions causing decreased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inducers.
  Avoid concurrent use of CISplatin with nephrotoxic drugs (e.g. aminoglycosides, furosemide, NSAIDS)
 due to additive nephrotoxicity. If necessary, monitor renal function closely..
  Marked elevations of prothrombin time and INR have been reported in patients stabilized on warfarin
 therapy following initiation of 5-Fluorouracil regimens.
  Concurrent administration of 5-Fluorouracil and phenytoin may result in increased serum levels of
 phenytoin.
  Caution should be taken when using 5-Fluorouracil in conjunction with medications which may affect
 DPD activity. Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:

 1. Haddad R, O’Neill A et al. Induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy
 (sequential chemoradiotherapy) versus concurrent chemoradiotherapy alone in locally advanced
 head and neck cancer (PARADIGM): a randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2013; 14 (3):257-264.
 2. Lorch JH et al. Induction chemotherapy with cisplatin and fluorouracil alone or in combination with
 docetaxel in locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck: long term results of
 the TAX 324 randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2011;12 (2):153-9.
 3. BCCA Protocol Summary for Treatment of Locally Advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head
 and Neck with DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Infusional Fluorouracil Revised 1 Aug 2014
 4. Nephrotoxicity Associated with CISplatin EviQ ID: 184 v.3
 https://www.eviq.org.au/clinical-resources/side-effect-and-toxicity-management/prophylaxis-and-
 prevention/184-nephrotoxicity-associated-with-CISplatin
 5. Portilla D et al. CISplatin nephrotoxicity. UptoDate Accessed Oct 2017
 https://www.uptodate.com/contents/CISplatin-
 nephrotoxicity?source=search_result&search=CISplatin%20hydration&selectedTitle=1~150
 6. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 7. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 8. Chouhan et al. Single premedication dose of dexamethasone 20mg IV before docetaxel
 administration. J Oncol Pharm Practice 2010;17(3):155–159
 9. Rogers ES et al. Efficacy and safety of a single dose of dexamethasone pre docetaxel treatment: The
 Auckland experience. Annals of Oncology (2014) 25 (suppl_4): iv517-iv541.
 10. Fatal Neutropenic Enterocolitis With DOCEtaxel in France by Aude Lecrubier. Available at:
 http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/876014
 11. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V3 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

 NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Published: 03/05/2016
 Version number: 7b
 5-Fluorouracil Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 13/05/2025
 Tumour Group: Head & Neck ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00323
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 12. HPRA Direct Healthcare Professional Communication. 5-Fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and tegafur
 containing products: Pre-treatment testing to identify DPD-deficient patients at increased risk of
 severe toxicity. Accessed Aug 2020 Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/docs/default-source/default-
 document-library/important-safety-information-from-marketing-authorisation-holders-of-
 products-containing-5-fluorouracil-(i-v-)-capecitabine-and-tegafur-as-approved-by-the-
 hpra.pdf?sfvrsn=0
 13. Docetaxel (Taxotere®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed May 2020. Available at:
 http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-
 Product_Information/human/000073/WC500035264.pdf
 14. CISplatin 1mg/ml Concentrate for Solution for Infusion Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed
 May 2020. Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0822-199-
 001_13102021113634.pdf
 15. Fluorouracil 50mg/ml Solution for injection or Infusion Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed
 May 2020. Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2315-091-
 001_16042021165722.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 03/05/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 02/05/2018 Updated with revised CISplatin hydration regimen Prof Maccon Keane
 recommendations, dosing in renal impairment
 updated re neutropenic enterocolitis
 3 09/10/2019 Updated exclusion criteria Prof Maccon Keane
 Amended recommended dose modification for
 haematological toxicity
 4 13/05/2020 Updated exclusion criteria Prof Maccon Keane
 Dosing in renal and hepatic impairment for DOCEtaxel
 updated
 5 24/08/2020 Updated exclusion criteria, baseline testing, dose Prof Maccon Keane
 modifications and adverse events with respect to DPD
 deficiency as per DHPC from HPRA June 2020
 Updated Adverse events regarding palmar-plantar
 erythrodysaesthesia
 6 09/09/2021 Clarification of requirement for non-PVC infusion bag only Prof Maccon Keane
 7 21/12/2021 Updated 5-Fluorouracil infusion information to include Prof Maccon Keane
 use of 96hr pump. Updated emetogenic potential.
 7a 21/11/2023 Formatting changes and grammatical corrections. NCCP
 7b 25/02/2025 Additional wording added to baseline testing section. NCCP

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel, CISplatin and Published: 03/05/2016
 Version number: 7b
5-Fluorouracil Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 13/05/2025
Tumour Group: Head & Neck ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00323
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
