NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Temozolomide with Radiotherapy (RT) and Adjuvant Therapy

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Adult patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme C71 00334a N/A
 concomitantly with radiotherapy (RT) followed by adjuvant
 treatment commencing 4 weeks after completion of chemoradiation
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Temozolomide is administered orally once daily with concomitant radiotherapy for 6 weeks.

 Four weeks after completion of the temozolomide and radiotherapy concomitant phase:
 Temozolomide is administered orally once daily on days 1-5 of a 28 day cycle for up to 6 cycles of
 monotherapy treatment or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Temozolomide and Concomitant Radiotherapy (RT) Phase
 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Temozolomide 75mg/m2 ONCE daily POa Continuously with radiotherapy for 6 weeks
 concomitantly with radiotherapy
 PJP prophylaxis (Refer to local policy) is required when temozolomide is administered with concomitant radiotherapy

 4 WEEK BREAK FOLLOWED BY:
 Temozolomide Monotherapy Phase (Adjuvant)
 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle (28 days)
 1-5 Temozolomide 150mg/m2 ONCE daily PO 1
 1-5 Temozolomide 200mg/m2 ONCE daily b PO 2-6
 a
 Temozolomide is available as 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg, 180 mg, or 250 mg hard capsules
 Temozolomide hard capsules should be administered in the fasting state.
 The capsules must be swallowed whole with a glass of water and must not be opened or chewed.
 If vomiting occurs after the dose is administered, a second dose should not be administered that day
 If a dose is missed, the patient should make up that dose, unless the next dose is due within 12 hours.
 bSee Dose Modifications: Temozolomide Monotherapy Phase below

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2
  Adequate renal and hepatic function

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide with RT Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
and Adjuvant Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00334
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Patients with hypersensitivity to temozolomide or any of its listed excipients
  Hypersensitivity to dacarbazine
  Severe myelosuppression
  Significant hepatic dysfunction
  Pregnancy or breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Blood glucose
  Virology screen -Hepatitis B* (HBsAg, HBcoreAb)
 *(Reference Regimen Specific Complications for information on Hepatitis B reactivation)

 Regular tests:
 Temozolomide and Concomitant Radiotherapy (RT)
  FBC profile weekly
  Renal and liver profile before week 4

 Temozolomide Monotherapy Phase (Adjuvant)
  FBC, renal and liver profile every 28 days (at day 1 of each cycle)

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 Temozolomide and Concomitant Radiotherapy (RT)
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
  No dose reductions are recommended, but delay or discontinuation of temozolomide
 administration should be decided weekly according to haematological and non-
 haematological toxicity criteria.
  Temozolomide administration can be continued throughout the 42 day concomitant period
 (up to 49 days) if all of the following conditions are met:
 o absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 x 109/L
 o platelet count ≥ 100 x 109/L
 o common toxicity criteria (CTC) non-haematological toxicity ≤ Grade 1 (except for alopecia,
 nausea and vomiting).
  During treatment with concomitant RT a complete blood count should be obtained weekly.
  Temozolomide administration should be temporarily interrupted or permanently
 discontinued during the concomitant phase according to the haematological and non-
 haematological toxicity criteria as noted in Table 1.

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide with RT Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
and Adjuvant Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00334
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 1: Temozolomide dosing interruption or discontinuation during concomitant radiotherapy and
 temozolomide
 Toxicity Temozolomide Temozolomide
 Interruption Discontinuation
 ANC ≥ 0.5 and <1.5 x 109/L < 0.5 x 109/L
 Platelets ≥ 10 and <100 x 109/L <10 x 109/L
 CTC non-haematological toxicity (except for CTC Grade 2 CTC Grade 3 or 4
 alopecia, nausea, vomiting)

 Temozolomide Monotherapy Phase
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Dose in Cycle 1 is 150 mg/m2 once daily for 5 days followed by 23 days without treatment.
  At the start of Cycle 2, the dose is escalated to 200 mg/m2 if the CTC non-haematological
 toxicity for Cycle 1 is Grade ≤ 2 (except for alopecia, nausea and vomiting), absolute
 neutrophil count (ANC) is ≥ 1.5 x 109/L, and the platelet count is ≥ 100 x 109/L.
  If the dose was not escalated at Cycle 2, escalation should not be done in subsequent cycles.
  Once escalated, the dose remains at 200 mg/m2 per day for the first 5 days of each
 subsequent cycle except if toxicity occurs.

 Table 2: Temozolomide dose levels for monotherapy treatment
 Dose Level Temozolomide Dose (mg/m2) Remarks
 -1 100 Reduction for prior toxicity
 0 150 Dose during Cycle 1
 1 200 Dose during Cycles 2-6 in absence of toxicity

 Table 3: Temozolomide dose reduction or discontinuation during monotherapy treatment
 Toxicity Reduce temozolomide by 1 Discontinue Temozolomide
 a
 dose level
 ANC < 1 x 109/L See footnote b
 Platelets < 50 x 109/L See footnote b
 CTC non-haematological toxicity CTC Grade 3 CTC Grade 4b
 (except for alopecia, nausea, vomiting)
 aTemozolomide dose levels are listed in Table 2.

 bTemozolomide is to be discontinued if:

  dose level -1 (100 mg/m2) still results in unacceptable toxicity
  the same Grade 3 non-haematological toxicity (except for alopecia, nausea, vomiting) recurs after dose reduction.

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide with RT Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
and Adjuvant Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00334
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 4: Dose modification of temozolomide in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/minute) Dose Impairment level: Dose
 ≥ 36 No dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B: No dose adjustment is needed

 < 36 No need for dose adjustment is Child-Pugh C: No need for dose adjustment is
 expected expected

 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment
 expected
 Recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

 Temozolomide: Moderate to high (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists
 and information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS: None

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 PJP prophylaxis during concomitant RT phase (Refer to local policy)
 Temozolomide can have genotoxic effects. Therefore, men being treated with it should be advised not to
 father a child up to 6 months after receiving the last dose and to seek advice on cryoconservation of
 sperm prior to treatment, because of the possibility of irreversible infertility due to therapy with
 temozolomide.

 ADVERSE EFFECTS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
  Hepatitis B Virus (HBV): Hepatitis due to HBV reactivation, in some cases resulting in death, has been
 reported. Experts in liver disease should be consulted before treatment is initiated in patients with
 positive hepatitis B serology (including those with active disease). During treatment patients should
 be monitored and managed appropriately.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide with RT Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
and Adjuvant Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00334
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 REFERENCES:
 1. Stupp R, Mason WP, van den Bent MJ, et al. Radiotherapy plus concomitant and adjuvant
 temozolomide for glioblastoma. N Engl J Med 2005;352(10):987-96.
 2. Stupp R, Hegi M. & Mason W. et al. Effects of radiotherapy with concomitant and adjuvant
 temozolomide versus radiotherapy alone on survival in glioblastoma in a randomised phase III study:
 5-year analysis of the EORTC-NCIC trial. Lancet Oncol. 2009:10 (5):459-66.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Temozolomide (Temodal ®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed July 2025. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/temodal-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 20/06/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 20/06/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen template Prof Maccon Keane
 and clarified treatment table
 3 15/07/2020 Regimen review Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated emetogenic potential
 4 23/07/2025 Reviewed. Updated exclusions section. Renal Prof Maccon Keane
 and Hepatic dose modifications updated to
 align with Giraud et al 2023. Regimen updated
 in line with NCCP standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide with RT Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
and Adjuvant Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00334
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
