NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Cetuximab (14 days) and Irinotecan (14 days) Therapyi
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Second line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer with non-mutated (wild C18 00331a N/A
 type) RAS after failure of or contraindication to oxaliplatin based therapy
 *This is for post 2012 indications only

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Cetuximab and irinotecan are administered once every 14 days until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1 Cetuximab 500mg/m2 IV infusion See footnote b below Repeat every 14 days
 Observe post
 infusiona
 1 Irinotecan 180mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL 0.9% NaCl over 90 minutes Repeat every 14 days
 aObtain vital signs pre-infusion, at 1 hour and post-infusion. 1 hour observation period following end of 1 st and 2nd cetuximab infusions. If no infusion

 reactions occur for 2 consecutive doses, then may discontinue observation period and vital signs.
 bThe initial dose should be given slowly and speed of infusion must not exceed 5 mg/minute.

 For subsequent doses, the maximum infusion rate must not exceed 10 mg/minute if no adverse reaction to first infusion. May be administered diluted
 in 0.9% NaCl or undiluted. Flush the line with 0.9% NaCl at the end of the cetuximab infusion.
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  Wild type RAS tumours verified by a validated test method
  ECOG 0-2
  Adequate marrow reserve
  Adequate renal and liver function

 CAUTION:
  In patients known to be homozygous for UGT1A1*28 consideration may be given to a reduced
 irinotecan starting dose
 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to cetuximab, irinotecan or to any of the excipients.
  Patients with mutant RAS mCRC or unknown RAS mCRC status
  Bilirubin > 3 x ULN
NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab (14 day) and Irinotecan Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 7
(14 day) Therapy Review: 27/01/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00331
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Complete medical history specifically asking about any previous infusion related reactions (IRR) to
 another antibody, allergy to red meat or tick bites, or any results of tests for IgE antibodies against
 cetuximab

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Post treatment: monthly electrolytes, magnesium, calcium for 2 months after last cetuximab
 treatment

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modifications for haematological toxicity
 ANC Platelets Cetuximab Dose Irinotecan Dose
 ( x 109/L ( x 109/L)
 ≥ 1.5 and ≥ 75 500mg/m2 180mg/m2
 1-1.4 or 50 - 74 Delay until ANC ≥ 1.5 and platelets ≥ 75 then resume at the same dose.
 <1 or <50 Delay until ANC ≥ 1.5 and platelets ≥ 75 then resume cetuximab at same
 dose and irinotecan at 150mg/m2.
 <0.5* or <10 Delay until ANC ≥ 1.5 and platelets ≥ 75 then resume cetuximab at same
 dose and irinotecan at 120mg/m2.
 *If ANC remains < 0.5 after 2 weeks, discontinue irinotecan.
 May continue cetuximab at oncologist’s discretion, if evidence of non-progression.
 Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated aggressively.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab (14 day) and Irinotecan Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 7
(14 day) Therapy Review: 27/01/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00331
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of cetuximab and irinotecan in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Cetuximab No need for dose adjustment is No need for dose adjustment is expected
 expected

 Haemodialysis: no need for dose
 adjustment is expected
 Irinotecan CrCl (mL/min) Dose Irinotecan is contraindicated in patients with bilirubin
 ≥10 No need for dose levels >3 x ULN
 adjustment is
 expected
 <10 Start with 50-
 66% of original
 dose, increase if
 tolerated
 Haemodialysis Start with 50-
 66% of original
 dose, increase if
 tolerated
 Cetuximab: Renal and hepatic dose modifications from Giraud et al 2023.
 Irinotecan: Renal dose modifications from Giraud et al 2023; Hepatic dose modifications from SmPC.

 Management of adverse events:
 Diarrhoea:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of cetuximab and irinotecan based on Grade diarrhoea experienced
 Grade Cetuximab Dose Irinotecan Dose
 Grade 1-2 500mg/m2 180mg/m2
 Grade 3 Delay until grade 2 or less within 2 weeks then resume at cetuximab 400mg/m2 and irinotecan
 150mg/m2
 Grade 4 Delay until grade 2 or less within 2 weeks then resume at cetuximab 300mg/m2 and irinotecan
 120mg/m2
 If diarrhoea remains greater than grade 2 for greater than 2 weeks, discontinue irinotecan.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab (14 day) and Irinotecan Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 7
(14 day) Therapy Review: 27/01/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00331
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 4: Dose modification schedule for cetuximab based on adverse events
 Adverse reaction Recommended dose modification
 Infusion Reaction
 Grade 1 Continue slow infusion under close supervision.

 Grade 2 Continue slow infusion and immediately administer treatment for symptoms.

 Grade 3 and 4 Stop infusion immediately, treat symptoms vigorously and contraindicate further
 use of cetuximab
 Interstitial lung disease Discontinue
 Skin reaction
 No dosage adjustment required. See local skin care policy for the prevention and
 Grade 1 or 2
 treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions.

 Severe skin reaction
 ≥ grade 3*
 First occurrence Hold cetuximab treatment for a maximum of 2 weeks.
 Reinitate therapy only if reaction has resolved to grade 2 at 500mg/m2
 Second occurrence Hold cetuximab treatment for a maximum of 2 weeks.
 Reinitate therapy only if reaction has resolved to grade 2 at 400mg/m2

 Third occurrence Hold cetuximab treatment for a maximum of 2 weeks.
 Reinitate therapy only if reaction has resolved to grade 2 at 300mg/m2

 Fourth occurrence Discontinue
 * See other supportive care section below

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting-
 Available on the NCCP website

 Cetuximab Low (Refer to local policy).
 Irinotecan Moderate (Refer to local policy).

Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS:
  Patients must receive premedication with an antihistamine and a corticosteroid before receiving
 cetuximab infusion. This premedication is recommended prior to all subsequent infusions. Patient
 should be educated about the possibility of delayed infusion-related symptoms.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab (14 day) and Irinotecan Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 7
(14 day) Therapy Review: 27/01/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00331
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Prophylactic atropine sulphate 250 micrograms subcutaneously prior to irinotecan infusion. Atropine
 should not be used in patients with glaucoma.

 Table 5: Suggested pre-medications prior to cetuximab infusion:
 Drugs Dose Route

 Chlorphenamine 10mg IV bolus 60 minutes prior to cetuximab infusion

 dexAMETHasone 8mg IV bolus 60 minutes prior to cetuximab infusion

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Patients should be made aware of the risk of delayed diarrhoea occurring more than 24 hours after
 the administration of irinotecan and at any time before the next cycle.
 o As soon as the first liquid stool occurs, the patient should start drinking large volumes of
 beverages containing electrolytes and an appropriate anti-diarrhoeal therapy must be
 initiated immediately.
 o The currently recommended anti-diarrhoeal treatment consists of high doses of loperamide
 (4 mg for the first intake and then 2 mg every 2 hours).
 o This therapy should continue for 12 hours after the last liquid stool and should not be
 modified.
 o In no instance should loperamide be administered for more than 48 consecutive hours at these
 doses, because of the risk of paralytic ileus, nor for less than 12 hours.
  Patients should be warned about the potential for dizziness or visual disturbances which may occur
 within 24 hours following the administration of irinotecan, and advised not to drive or operate
 machinery if these symptoms occur.
  See local skin care policy for the prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details
 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
  Acute cholinergic syndrome: If acute cholinergic syndrome appears (defined as early diarrhoea and
 various other symptoms such as sweating, abdominal cramping, lacrimation, myosis and salivation)
 atropine sulphate (250 micrograms subcutaneously) should be administered unless clinically
 contraindicated. Caution should be exercised in patients with asthma. In patients who experienced
 an acute and severe cholinergic syndrome, the use of prophylactic atropine sulphate is
 recommended with subsequent doses of irinotecan.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab (14 day) and Irinotecan Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 7
(14 day) Therapy Review: 27/01/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00331
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 REFERENCES:
 1. Cunningham D, et al: Cetuximab Monotherapy and Cetuximab plus Irinotecan in Irinotecan-
 Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer. NEJM 2004; 351:337 – 345.
 2. Pfeiffer P, Nielsen D et al. Biweekly cetuximab and irinotecan as third-line therapy in patients with
 advanced colorectal cancer after failure to irinotecan, oxaliplatin and 5-fluorouracil. Annals Oncol
 2008; 19:1141-1145.
 3. Martin-Martorell, P, Roselle S et al. Biweekly cetuximab and irinotecan in advanced colorectal cancer
 patients progressing after at least one previous line of chemotherapy: results of a phase II single
 institution trial. Br J Cancer 2008; 99:455-458
 4. Taberno J, Ciardiello F et al. Cetuximab administered once every second week to patients with
 metastatic colorectal cancer: a two-part pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic phase I dose-escalation
 study. Annals Oncol 2010; 21:1537-1545
 5. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 6. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V5 2023. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 7. Cetuximab 5mg/mL (Erbitux®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 16/08/2024.
 Accessed November 2024. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/erbitux-epar-product-information_en.pdf
 8. Irinotecan 20mg/mL Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 20/06/24. Accessed
 November 2024. Available at: https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/27707/Licence_PA2315-108-
 001_05122023164035.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 03/06/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 20/06/2018 Updated with new NCCP regimen Prof Maccon Keane
 template. Standardisation of treatment
 table and dosing in renal and hepatic
 impairment
 3 12/02/2019 Updated dosing in hepatic impairment Prof Maccon Keane
 for irinotecan in combination therapy
 regimens
 4 10/04/2019 Updated dose modification schedule for Prof Maccon Keane
 adverse events
 5 10/06/2020 Regimen reviewed. Update of renal and Prof Maccon Keane
 hepatic dose modifications and
 emetogenic potential.
 6 17/01/2022 Added caution for patients known to be Prof Maccon Keane
 homozygous for UGT1A1*28 . Removed
 ATC Codes.
 Updated references

 7 27/01/2025 Regimen reviewed. Update to renal and Prof Maccon Keane
 hepatic dose modifications table.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab (14 day) and Irinotecan Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 7
(14 day) Therapy Review: 27/01/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 6 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00331
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Addition of Table 5 pre medications.
 Regimen updated in line with NCCP
 standardisation (emetogenic potential,
 adverse effects, regimen specific
 complications and drug interactions).

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i
 This regimen is outside its licensed indication in Ireland. Patients should be informed of the unlicensed
 nature of this regimen and consented to treatment in line with the hospital’s policy on the use of
 unlicensed medication and unlicensed or “off label” indications. Prescribers should be aware of their
 responsibility in communicating any relevant information to the patient and also in ensuring that the
 unlicensed or “off label” indication has been acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs and Therapeutics
 Committee, or equivalent, in line with hospital policy

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab (14 day) and Irinotecan Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 7
(14 day) Therapy Review: 27/01/2030
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 7 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00331
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
