NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Imatinib Therapy - GIST
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of adult patients with Kit (CD117) positive unresectable and/or C16 00335a N/A
 metastatic malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST).
 Adjuvant treatment of adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse C16 00335b N/A
 following resection of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Unresectable/Metastatic GIST:
 Imatinib 400mg is taken orally, once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops. The
 dose may be increased to 800mg daily in progressing disease.

 Adjuvant:
 Imatinib 400mg is taken orally, once daily continuously for up to 3 years after resection unless the patient
 experiences disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Imatinib 400mg once daily* PO with food Continuous
 *For daily doses of 800mg, the dose should be administered as 400mg twice a day, in the morning and in the evening
 Imatinib is commonly available as 100mg and 400mg/tablets

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • ECOG status 0-3
 • Adequate bone marrow, renal and liver function

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to imatinib or any of the excipients
 • Patients who have a low risk of recurrence are not eligible for adjuvant treatment
 • Pregnancy
 • Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 Published: 20/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Imatinib Therapy-GIST Version number: 4
 Review: 18/10/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00335
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 • ECG
 • Virology screen -Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBcoreAb)*
 *(Regimen Specific Complications for information on Hepatitis B reactivation)

 Regular tests:
 • Renal and liver profile monthly
 • FBC every 2 weeks for first 12 weeks and then monthly or as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant

 Haematological:

 Table 1: Dose modification of imatinib in haematological toxicity
 ANC (x 109/L) Platelets (x 109/L) Dose
 1.5-1.99 or <LLN* to 75 400mg daily
 1-1.49 or 50-74 400mg daily
 0.5-0.99 or 10-49 Hold until toxicity ≤ Grade 1, then resume at 300mg daily.
 <0.5 or <10
 For second occurrence, hold until toxicity ≤ Grade 1, then
 resume at 200mg daily.
 No dose reductions for Grade 3 or 4 anaemia. Patients can be transfused or treated with erythropoietin
 *LLN=Lower Limit Normal

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:

 Table 2: Dose modification of imatinib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No dose adjustment is needed No dose adjustment is needed

 Haemodialysis: no dose adjustment is needed *In patients with hepatic dysfunction (mild, moderate
 or severe), peripheral blood counts and liver enzymes
 should be carefully monitored. It should be noted that
 GIST patients may have hepatic metastases which could
 lead to hepatic impairment.
 Renal and hepatic recommendations aligned to Giraud et al 2023
 *As per SPC

 Published: 20/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Imatinib Therapy-GIST Version number: 4
 Review: 18/10/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00335
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:

 Table 3: Hepatotoxic Adverse Events
 Bilirubin Liver Transaminases Dose
 > 3 x ULN or > 5 x ULN Hold until bilirubin < 1.5 x ULN and transaminase levels
 < 2.5 x ULN, then resume at 300 mg daily.

 Table 4: Dose Modification for Non-Haematological Adverse Reactions
 Toxicity Occurrence Recommended dose modification and measures
 1st occurrence Hold until toxicity ≤ Grade 1, then resume at the same daily dose.
 Grade 2 2nd occurrence Hold until toxicity ≤ Grade 1, then resume at 300mg daily
 3rd occurrence Hold until toxicity ≤ Grade 1, then resume at 200mg daily
 1st occurrence Hold until toxicity ≤ Grade 1, then resume at 300mg daily
 Grade 3 or 4
 2 occurrence
 nd
 Hold until toxicity ≤ Grade 1, then resume at 200mg daily

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting Available on the NCCP website

Imatinib doses ≤400mg/day: Minimal to low (Refer to local policy)
Imatinib doses >400mg/day: Moderate to high (Refer to local policy)

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
information is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations

ADVERSE EFFECTS
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
 • Hypothyroidism: Hypothyroidism has been reported in thyroidectomy patients undergoing
 thyroxine replacement during treatment with imatinib.
 • Fluid retention: Monitor regularly for signs and symptoms of fluid retention caused by imatinib.
 Probability increases with higher doses, age greater than 65 years and patients with a prior history
 of cardiac disease. If severe fluid retention occurs treatment should be withheld until resolved.
 • Cardiac Disease: Patients with cardiac disease, risk factors for cardiac failure or history of renal
 failure should be monitored carefully, and any patient with signs or symptoms consistent with
 cardiac or renal failure should be evaluated and treated.
 Published: 20/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Imatinib Therapy-GIST Version number: 4
 Review: 18/10/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00335
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Gastrointestinal haemorrhage: In the study in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST,
 both gastrointestinal and intra-tumoural haemorrhages were reported. Based on the available data,
 no predisposing factors (e.g. tumour size, tumour location, coagulation disorders) have been
 identified that place patients with GIST at a higher risk of either type of haemorrhage. Since increased
 vascularity and propensity for bleeding is a part of the nature and clinical course of GIST, standard
 practices and procedures for the monitoring and management of haemorrhage in all patients should
 be applied.
 • Reactivation of Hepatitis B Virus (HBV): Cases of reactivation of HBV have occurred in patients who
 are chronic carriers of HBV after they received BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Some cases
 of HBV reactivation resulted in acute hepatic failure or fulminant hepatitis leading to liver
 transplantation or a fatal outcome.
 o Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with BCR-ABL TKIs
 o Experts in liver disease and the treatment of HBV should be consulted before treatment in
 patients with positive HBV serology (including those with active disease) is initiated and for
 patients who test positive for HBV infection during treatment.
 o Patients who are carriers of HBV requiring treatment with BCR-ABL TKIs should be closely
 monitored for signs and symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several
 months following termination of therapy.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Demetri GD, et al. Efficacy and safety of imatinib mesylate in advanced gastrointestinal stromal
 tumors. N.Engl.J.Med. 2002; 347(7): 472-480.
 2. Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Meta-Analysis, Group. Comparison of two doses of imatinib for the
 treatment of unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors: a meta-analysis of 1,640
 patients. J Clin Oncol 2010;28(7):1247-1253.
 3. Verweij J, Paolo G Casali PG et al. Progression-free survival in gastrointestinal stromal tumours with
 high-dose imatinib: randomised trial. Lancet 2004; 364:1127-1134.
 4. Dematteo, RP, Ballman KV, Antonescu CR, et al. Adjuvant imatinib mesylate after resection of
 localised, primary gastrointestinal stromal tumour: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled
 trial. Lancet 2009;373(9669):1097-1104.
 5. Joensuu H, Eriksson M, Sundby Hall K, et al. One vs three years of adjuvant imatinib for operable
 gastrointestinal stromal tumor: a randomized trial. JAMA 2012;307(12):1265-1272
 6. BC Cancer Protocol Summary for Adjuvant Treatment of C-Kit Positive High Risk Gastrointestinal
 Stromal Cell Tumours Using iMAtinib SAAJGI Revised May 2018
 7. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 8. Glivec® Summary of Product Characteristics Last updated 04/08/2025. Accessed September 2025
 Available at https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/glivec-epar-
 product-information_en.pdf

 Published: 20/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Imatinib Therapy-GIST Version number: 4
 Review: 18/10/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00335
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 20/06/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 20/06/2018 Updated with new NCCP template Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated treatment table
 Updated emetogenic potential
 3 15/07/2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated adverse events
 Updated references
 Regimen reviewed.
 Updated exclusion criteria
 Update renal and hepatic impairment to
 4 18/10/2025 align with Giraud et al 2023 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated regimen specific complications
 Updated regimen in line with NCCP
 standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 20/06/2016
NCCP Regimen: Imatinib Therapy-GIST Version number: 4
 Review: 18/10/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00335
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
