NCCP National SACT Regimen

 FLOT Therapy-14 day

INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of locally advanced (≥T2) and/or nodal positive (N+) C16 00344a N/A
 resectable gastric adenocarcinoma
 Treatment of locally advanced ((≥T2) and/or nodal positive (N+) C16 00344b N/A
 resectable adenocarcinoma of the oesophagogastreal junction
*This applies to post 2012 indications

TREATMENT:
The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

DOCEtaxel, oxaliplatin, folinic acid and 5-Fluorouracil are administered on Day 1 of a 14 day cycle.
Four neoadjuvant cycles are administered prior to surgery over 8 weeks and four adjuvant cycles are
administered post-surgery over 8 weeks.

Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Order of
 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 Admin
 1 1 DOCEtaxel 50mg/m2 IV infusion a
 250mL 0.9% NaCl over 60 Every 14 days
 minutes
 b
 2 1 Oxaliplatin 85mg/m2 IV infusion c
 500mL glucose 5% over 2 Every 14 days
 hoursd
 3 1 Folinic Acide 200mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL glucose 5% over 2 hours Every 14 days
 (Calcium
 leucovorin)
 4 1 5-Fluorouracilf 2600mg/m2 Continuous Over 24 hours in 0.9% NaCl Every 14 days
 IV infusion
 Secondary prophylaxis with G-CSF is recommended for patients who experience febrile neutropenia or treatment interruptions because of neutropenia
 or leucopenia.
 a75-185mg dose use 250mL infusion bag. For doses> 185mg use 500mL infusion bag
 Use non-PVC infusion bag.
 bOxaliplatin is incompatible with 0.9% NaCl. Do not piggyback or flush lines with normal saline
 c
 For oxaliplatin doses ≤ 104mg use 250mL glucose 5%.
 Oxaliplatin administration must always precede the administration of 5-Fluorouracil.
 Oxaliplatin may be given at the same time as Folinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) using a Y connector.
 dIncrease infusion rate time for oxaliplatin to 4 – 6 hours in case of laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia reaction.

 eFolinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) must be administered prior to 5-Fluorouracil. It enhances the effects of 5-Fluorouracil by increasing 5-Fluorouracil

 binding to the target enzyme thymidylate synthetase.

 fSee dose modifications section for patients with identified partial dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

NCCP Regimen: FLOT Therapy-14 Published: 08/09/2017
 Version number: 9
day Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00344
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
• Indications as above
• ECOG status 0-2
• Adequate haematological, renal and liver status

 EXCLUSIONS:
• Hypersensitivity to DOCEtaxel, oxaliplatin, 5-Fluorouracil or any of the excipients
• Severe hepatic impairment
• Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30mL/min)
• Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

 USE with CAUTION:
• Peripheral neuropathy ≥ Grade 2

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
Baseline tests:
• FBC, renal and liver profile
• DPD testing prior to first treatment with 5-Fluorouracil using phenotype and/or genotype testing unless
 patient has been previously tested
 o In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, blood uracil levels used for
 dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) phenotyping should be interpreted with caution, as
 impaired kidney function can lead to increased uracil blood levels. Consequently, there is an
 increased risk for incorrect diagnosis of DPD deficiency, which may result in under dosing of 5-
 Fluorouracil or other fluoropyrimidines, leading to reduced treatment efficacy. Genotype testing
 for DPD deficiency should be considered for patients with renal impairment.

Regular tests:
• FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
• Evaluate for peripheral neuropathy every 2 cycles or as clinically indicated

Disease monitoring:
Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by the
supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
• Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency
 o Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment
 o In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful monitoring

 NCCP Regimen: FLOT Therapy-14 Published: 08/09/2017
 Version number: 9
 day Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
 Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00344
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

• Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modification for haematological toxicity
 ANC Platelets WBC Dose of DOCEtaxel and Oxaliplatin
 (x 109/L) (x 109/L) (x 109/L)
 ≥1 and ≥ 100 and ≥ 3 100% Dose
 Thrombocytopenia with bleeding Dose reduce to 75%
 Febrile neutropenia:
 First occurrence Consider the use of G-CSF
 Second occurrence (despite use of G-CSF) Dose reduce to 75%
 Further occurrences Dose reduce to 50%

 G-CSF secondary prophylaxis recommended for patients who experience febrile neutropenia or treatment
 interruptions because of neutropenia or leucopenia

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal impairment Hepatic Impairment
 DOCEtaxel No dose reduction necessary See Table 3 below
 Oxaliplatin CrCl (mL/min) Dose Little information available.
 >30 Treat at normal Probably no dose reduction necessary.
 dose and monitor Clinical decision.
 renal function
 <30 Contraindicated
 5-Fluorouracil Consider dose reduction in severe Bilirubin (micromol/L) AST Dose
 renal impairment only
 <85 <180 100%
 >85 or >180 Contraindicated
 Clinical decision.
 Moderate hepatic impairment; reduce initial dose by 1/3.
 Severe hepatic impairment, reduce initial dose by 1/2.
 Increase dose if no toxicity.

 Table 3: Dose modification of DOCEtaxel in hepatic impairment
 Alkaline AST and/or ALT Serum Dose
 Phosphatase Bilirubin
 > 2.5 ULN and > 1.5 ULN </= ULN 100%
 > 6 ULN and/or > 3.5 ULN (AST and > ULN Stop treatment unless strictly indicated and
 and ALT) should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Non-haematological toxicity:
 Table 4: Dose modification schedule based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade >2 non-haematological toxicity
 First occurrence Decrease dose of all drugs to 75%
 Second occurrence Decrease dose of all drugs to 50%

 NCCP Regimen: FLOT Therapy-14 Published: 08/09/2017
 Version number: 9
 day Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
 Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00344
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Oxaliplatin induced neuropathy:
 Table 5: Dose modification of oxaliplatin due to oxaliplatin induced neuropathy
 *Peripheral neuropathy
 Grade 2 present at start of cycle Reduce oxaliplatin to 65mg/m2
 Grade 3
 • First occurrence Reduce oxaliplatin to 65mg/m2
 • 2 occurrence
 nd Reduce oxaliplatin to 50mg/m2
 • Persistent Discontinue oxaliplatin
 Grade 4 Discontinue oxaliplatin

 *Neuropathy may be partially or wholly reversible after discontinuation of therapy; patients with good recovery from Grade 3 (not Grade
 4) neuropathy may be considered for re-challenge with oxaliplatin, with starting dose one level below that which they were receiving when
 neuropathy developed.

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting - Available
 on the NCCP website

DOCEtaxel: Low (Refer to local policy)
Oxaliplatin: Moderate (Refer to local policy)
5-Fluorouracil: Low (Refer to local policy)

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists. Information is
 available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS:
• dexAMETHasone 8 mg PO twice daily for 3 days, starting one day prior to each DOCEtaxel administration
 unless contraindicated. Patient must receive minimum of 3 doses pre-treatment
• Consideration may be given, at the discretion of the prescribing consultant, to the use of a single dose of
 dexAMETHasone 20mg IV immediately before chemotherapy where patients have missed taking the oral
 premedication dexAMETHasone as recommended by the manufacturer (4,5)

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Medication may be required for management of diarrhoea, e.g. loperamide (4mg at first onset followed by
2mg after each loose stool (max 16 mg /day) or see local policy.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full details.
• Neutropenia: Most frequent adverse reaction. Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed
 promptly and treated appropriately. Frequent blood count monitoring should be conducted in all patients

 NCCP Regimen: FLOT Therapy-14 Published: 08/09/2017
 Version number: 9
 day Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
 Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00344
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 treated with DOCEtaxel.
• Extravasation: DOCEtaxel causes pain and tissue necrosis if extravasated. Oxaliplatin causes irritation if
 extravasated. (Refer to local extravasation guidelines).

DOCEtaxel
• Neutropenic Enterocolitis: A number of cases of neutropenic enterocolitis have been reported in patients
 treated with DOCEtaxel in France (7). This is a known and rare side effect of DOCEtaxel which may affect up
 to one in 1,000 people.
• Hypersensitivity Reactions: Patients should be observed closely for hypersensitivity reactions especially
 during the first and second infusions of DOCEtaxel. Hypersensitivity reactions may occur within a few
 minutes following the initiation of the infusion of DOCEtaxel, thus facilities for the treatment of hypotension
 and bronchospasm should be available. However, severe reactions, such as severe hypotension,
 bronchospasm or generalised rash/erythema require immediate discontinuation of DOCEtaxel and
 appropriate therapy. Patients who have developed severe hypersensitivity reactions should not be re-
 challenged with DOCEtaxel.
• Fluid Retention: Dexamethasone premedication must be given to reduce the incidence and severity of fluid
 retention with DOCEtaxel. It can also reduce the severity of the hypersensitivity reaction.

5-Fluorouracil
• Gastrointestinal toxicity: Patients treated with 5-Fluorouracil should be closely monitored for diarrhoea
 and managed appropriately.
• DPD deficiency: DPD is an enzyme encoded by the DPYD gene which is responsible for the breakdown of
 fluoropyrimidines. Patients with DPD deficiency are therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidine-related
 toxicity, including for example stomatitis, diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and neurotoxicity.
 Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil, capecitabine or tegafur-containing medicinal products is contraindicated in
 patients with known complete DPD deficiency. Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified
 partial DPD deficiency. Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment. In the absence of serious
 toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful monitoring. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM)
 of 5-Fluorouracil may improve clinical outcomes in patients receiving continuous 5-Fluorouracil infusions.
• Hand-foot syndrome (HFS),also known as palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE) has been reported as
 an unusual complication of high dose bolus or protracted continuous therapy for 5-Fluorouracil.

Oxaliplatin
• Platinum Hypersensitivity: Special surveillance should be ensured for patients with a history of allergic
 manifestations to other products containing platinum. In case of anaphylactic manifestations the infusion
 should be interrupted immediately and an appropriate symptomatic treatment started. Re-administration
 of oxaliplatin to such patients is contraindicated.
• Laryngopharyngeal dysesthesia: An acute syndrome of laryngopharyngeal dysesthesia occurs in 1% - 2% of
 patients and is characterised by subjective sensations of dysphagia or dyspnoea/feeling of suffocation,
 without any objective evidence of respiratory distress (no cyanosis or hypoxia) or of laryngospasm or
 bronchospasm. Symptoms are often precipitated by exposure to cold. Although antihistamines and
 bronchodilators have been administered in such cases, the symptoms are rapidly reversible even in the
 absence of treatment. Prolongation of the infusion helps to reduce the incidence of this syndrome.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
• Risk of drug interactions causing increased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inhibitors and
 NCCP Regimen: FLOT Therapy-14 Published: 08/09/2017
 Version number: 9
 day Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
 Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00344
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

decreased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inducers.
• Marked elevations of prothrombin time and INR have been reported in patients stabilized on warfarin
 therapy following initiation of 5-Fluorouracil regimes.
• Concurrent administration of 5-Fluorouracil and phenytoin may result in increased serum levels of
 phenytoin.
• 5-Fluorouracil is contraindicated in combination with brivudin, sorivudin and analogues as these are potent
 inhibitors of the 5-Fluorouracil-metabolising enzyme DPD.
• Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:

1. Al-Batran et al. Perioperative chemotherapy with fluorouracil plus leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and docetaxel
 versus fluorouracil or capecitabine plus cisplatin and epirubicin for locally advanced, resectable gastric or
 gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma (FLOT4): a randomised, phase 2/3 trial. Lancet 2019. S0140-
 6736(18)32557-1
2. Al-Batran S-E et al. Perioperative chemotherapy with DOCEtaxel, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil/leucovorin
 (FLOT) versus epirubicin, cisplatin, and fluorouracil or capecitabine (ECF/ECX) for resectable gastric or
 gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma (FLOT4-AIO): A multicenter, randomized phase 3 trial.
 2017 ASCO Annual Meeting Abstract 4004 J Clin Oncol 35, 2017 (suppl; abstr 4004)
3. Al-Batran S-E, Hofheinz RD et al.Histopathological regression after neoadjuvant DOCEtaxel,
 oxaliplatin,fluorouracil, and leucovorin versus epirubicin, cisplatin, and fl uorouracil or capecitabine in
 patients with resectable gastric or gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma (FLOT4-AIO): results from
 the phase 2 part of a multicentre, open-label, randomised phase 2/3 trial . Lancet Oncol 2016; 17: 1697–
 708
4. Al-Batran S-E, Hartmann JT et al. Biweekly fluorouracil, leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and DOCEtaxel (FLOT) for
 patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or esophagogastric junction: a phase II trial of
 the Arbeitsgemeinschaft Internistische Onkologie Annals of Oncology 2008; 19: 1882–1887
5. Chouhan et al. Single premedication dose of dexamethasone 20mg IV before DOCEtaxel administration. J
 Oncol Pharm Practice 2010;17(3): 155–159
6. Rogers ES et al. Efficacy and safety of a single dose of dexamethasone pre-DOCEtaxel treatment: The
 Auckland experience. Annals of Oncology (2014) 25 (suppl_4): iv517-iv541
7. Fatal Neutropenic Enterocolitis With DOCEtaxel in France by Aude Lecrubier. Available at
 http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/876014
8. DOCEtaxel (Taxotere®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed April 2021. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/taxotere-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
9. Oxaliplatin (Eloxatin ®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 23/04/2019. Accessed April
 2021. Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0540-148-
 001_23042019151332.pdf
10. Fluorouracil 50mg/ml infusion for injection. Accessed April 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0822-223-001_08122020085808.pdf
11. Krens S D, Lassche,Jansman G F G A, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients
 with renal or hepatic impairment. Lancet Onco/2019;20:e201-08.
12. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
13. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
14. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting. V3
 2021 Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 NCCP Regimen: FLOT Therapy-14 Published: 08/09/2017
 Version number: 9
 day Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
 Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00344
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
15. HPRA Direct Healthcare Professional Communication. 5-Fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and tegafur
 containing products: Pre-treatment testing to identify DPD-deficient patients at increased risk of severe
 toxicity.June 2020 Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/docs/default-source/default-document-
 library/important-safety-information-from-marketing-authorisation-holders-of-products-containing-5-
 fluorouracil-(i-v-)-capecitabine-and-tegafur-as-approved-by-the-hpra.pdf?sfvrsn=0

 From 20/05/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to suggest
 any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 18/08/2017 Prof Maccon Keane

 2 04/10/2017 Amended dose modifications for Prof Maccon Keane
 haematological toxicity
 3 24/04/2019 Updated treatment table Prof Maccon Keane
 Amended adverse effects/regimen
 specific complications for DOCEtaxel.
 Updated hepatic dose modification and
 emetogenic potential.
 4 13/02/2020 Standardisation of treatment table. Prof Maccon Keane
 Update of exclusions and drug
 interaction. Update of recommended
 dose modifications for oxaliplatin in
 renal impairment.
 5 26/02/2020 Standardisation of treatment table. Prof Maccon Keane
 6 19/08/2020 Updated exclusion criteria, baseline Prof Maccon Keane
 testing, dose modifications and adverse
 events with respect to DPD deficiency as
 per DHPC from HPRA June 2020
 Updated Adverse events regarding
 palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia
 7 28/04/2021 Reviewed. Prof Maccon Keane
 8 09/09/2021 Clarification of requirement for non-PVC Prof Maccon Keane
 infusion bag only
 8a 21/11/2023 Formatting changes and grammatical NCCP
 corrections.
 8b 25/02/2025 Additional wording added to baseline NCCP
 testing section.
 9 Amendment to review schedule. NCCP
 20/05/2026 Addition of links in emetogenic potential
 section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 NCCP Regimen: FLOT Therapy-14 Published: 08/09/2017
 Version number: 9
 day Date Last Reviewed: 28/04/2021
 Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00344
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
