NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Temozolomide Recurrent Therapy

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Adult patients with Grade III or IV malignant glioma, such as C71 00342a N/A
 glioblastoma multiforme or anaplastic astrocytoma, showing
 recurrence or progression after standard therapy.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 A treatment cycle comprises 28 days. Temozolomide is administered orally once daily for the first 5 days
 followed by a 23 day treatment interruption (total of 28 days) until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity develops

 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle (28 day)
 a
 1-5 Temozolomide 200mg/m2 ONCE PO Continuous
 daily
 a
 In patients previously untreated with chemotherapy, temozolomide is administered orally at a dose of 200 mg/m 2 once daily for the first 5 days
 followed by a 23 day treatment interruption (total of 28 days).
 In patients previously treated with chemotherapy, the initial dose is 150 mg/m2 once daily, to be increased in the second cycle to 200 mg/m2 once
 daily, for 5 days if there is no haematological toxicity
 Temozolomide hard capsules should be administered in the fasting state.
 The capsules must be swallowed whole with a glass of water and must not be opened or chewed.
 If vomiting occurs after the dose is administered, a second dose should not be administered that day
 If a dose is missed, the patient should make up that dose, unless the next dose is due within 12 hours.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2
  Adequate renal and hepatic function

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Patients with hypersensitivity to temozolomide or any of its listed excipients
  Hypersensitivity to dacarbazine
  Severe myelosuppression
  Significant hepatic dysfunction
  Pregnancy or breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide Recurrent Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00342
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Blood glucose
  Virology screen -Hepatitis B* (HBsAg, HBcoreAb)
 *(Reference Regimen Specific Complications for information on Hepatitis B reactivation)

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile at day 1 of each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
  Dose reductions and discontinuations should be applied according to Tables 1 and 2.

 Table 1: Temozolomide dose levels for monotherapy treatment
 Dose Level Temozolomide Dose (mg/m2) Remarks
 -1 100 Reduction for prior toxicity
 0 150 Dose during Cycle 1
 1 200 Dose during Cycles 2-6 in absence of toxicity

 Table 2: Temozolomide dose reduction or discontinuation during monotherapy treatment
 Toxicity Reduce Temozolomide by 1 Discontinue Temozolomide
 dose levela
 ANC < 1 x 109/L See footnote b
 Platelets < 50 x 109/L See footnote b
 CTC non-haematological toxicity (except CTC Grade 3 CTC Grade 4b
 for alopecia, nausea, vomiting)
 aTemozolomide dose levels are listed in Table 1.

 b Temozolomide is to be discontinued if:

  dose level -1 (100 mg/m2) still results in unacceptable toxicity
  the same Grade 3 non-haematological toxicity (except for alopecia, nausea, vomiting) recurs after dose reduction.

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide Recurrent Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00342
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:

 Table 3: Dose modification of temozolomide in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/minute) Dose Impairment level: Dose
 ≥ 36 No dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B: No dose adjustment is needed

 < 36 No need for dose adjustment is Child-Pugh C: No need for dose adjustment is
 expected expected

 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment
 expected
 Recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

 Temozolomide: Moderate to high (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists
 and information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS: None

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 Temozolomide can have genotoxic effects. Therefore, men being treated with it should be advised not to
 father a child up to 6 months after receiving the last dose and to seek advice on cryoconservation of
 sperm prior to treatment, because of the possibility of irreversible infertility due to therapy with
 temozolomide.

 ADVERSE EFFECTS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
  Hepatitis B Virus (HBV): Hepatitis due to HBV reactivation, in some cases resulting in death, has been
 reported. Experts in liver disease should be consulted before treatment is initiated in patients with
 positive hepatitis B serology (including those with active disease). During treatment patients should
 be monitored and managed appropriately.

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide Recurrent Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00342
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Bower M, Newlands ES, Bleehan NM et al. Multicentre CRC phase II trial of temozolomide in recurrent
 or progressive high grade glioma. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 1997;40:484-8.
 2. Yung WKA, Prados MD, Yaya-Tur R et al. Multicenter phase II trial of temozolomide in patients with
 anaplastic astrocytoma or anaplastic oligoastrocytoma at first relapse. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:2762-71.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Temozolomide (Temodal ®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed July 2025. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/temodal-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 20/06/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated with new NCCP regimen template and
 2 20/06/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 clarified treatment table
 Regimen review
 3 15/07/2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated emetogenic potential
 Reviewed. Updated exclusions section. Renal and
 Hepatic dose modifications updated to align with
 4 23/07/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 Giraud et al 2023. Regimen updated in line with
 NCCP standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Temozolomide Recurrent Published: 20/06/2016 Version number: 4
Therapy Review: 23/07/2030
Tumour Group: Neuro-oncology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00342
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
