NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Trabectedin and Pegylated Liposomal DOXOrubicin
 (PLD) Therapy
 Please note that the Myocet® product, which contains non-pegylated liposomal DOXOrubicin
 should not be used when treating patients with this regimen.

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of patients with relapsed platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer C56 00375a N/A
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Trabectedin is administered as an intravenous infusion over 3 hours once every 21 days immediately
 after pegylated liposomal DOXOrubicin 30mg/m2 until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is
 administered.

 Admin. Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 Order
 1 1 Pegylated liposomal 30 mg/m2 IV infusion a
 250mL glucose 5% at rate of Every 21
 DOXOrubicini 1mg/minute for first cycle days
 2 1 Trabectedin 1.1 mg/m2 IV infusion b
 1000mL NaCl 0.9% over 3 Every 21
 hours days
 aFor doses ≥ 90mg, use 500mL infusion bag.

 Do not use with in-line filters.
 NOTE: If no infusion reaction observed subsequent infusions may be administered over 60 minutes.
 For patients who experience an infusion reaction, the method of infusion should be modified as follows: 5 % of the total dose should
 be infused slowly over the first 15 minutes. If tolerated without reaction, the infusion rate may then be doubled for the next 15
 minutes. If tolerated, the infusion may then be completed over the next hour for a total infusion time of 90 minutes.
 bConcentration of trabectedin in the infusion solution being ≤ 0.030 mg/mL.

 Intravenous administration through a central venous line is strongly recommended.
 Pegylated Liposomal DOXOrubicin is a neurotoxic chemotherapeutic agent. Refer to NCCP Guidance on the Safe Use of Neurotoxic
 drugs (including Vinca Alkaloids) in the treatment of cancer. (Available on NCCP website).
 Lifetime cumulative dose of Pegylated Liposomal DOXOrubicin is 450mg/m2
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

NCCP Regimen: Trabectedin and Pegylated Published: 11/11/2016
 Version number: 6
Liposomal DOXOrubicin Therapy Review: 26/05/2031
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00375
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 1: Pre-treatment haematological, renal and liver criteria required before treatment with trabectedin
 ANC ≥ 1.5 x109/L Patients should not proceed with treatment with
 Platelets 9
 ≥ 100 x10 /L trabectedin unless these pre-treatment criteria are met.
 Haemoglobin ≥ 9 g/dl
 If pre-treatment criteria are not met, treatment should
 Albumin ≥ 25 g/L
 be held.
 Bilirubin ≤ ULN
 Treatment may be held for up to 3 weeks.
 Alkaline phosphatase ≤ 2.5 x ULN* If criteria are still not met after delay consider
 Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and ≤ 2.5 x ULN discontinuation of treatment or dose reduction
 aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (Reference Dose Modifications below).
 Creatinine clearance (CrCl) ≥ 60 ml/min
 Or
 Serum Creatinine ≤ 1.5 mg/dl
 (≤132.6
 micromol/L)
 Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) ≤ 2.5 x ULN
 *ULN = Upper limit of normal

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • ECOG performance status 0-2
 • Adequate organ function (see Table 1 above)

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to liposomal pegylated DOXOrubicin, peanut or soya, trabectedin or any of
 the excipients
 • Pre-existing cardiac myopathy or congestive heart failure
 • Concurrent serious or uncontrolled infection
 • Breastfeeding
 • Pregnancy

 CAUTIONS:
 • Pre-existing severe hepatic impairment

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 • The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profiles, CPK
 • ECG
 • ECHO or MUGA (to determine LVEF)
 • Cardiac assessment as clinically indicated

NCCP Regimen: Trabectedin and Pegylated Published: 11/11/2016
 Version number: 6
Liposomal DOXOrubicin Therapy Review: 26/05/2031
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00375
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
 • Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) weekly during first two cycles of therapy and at least once
 between treatments in subsequent cycles
 • ECG
 • ECHO or MUGA (to determine LVEF) prior to each cycle
 • Assessment of palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (PPE) as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
 • The same dose should be given for all cycles provided that no grade 3-4 toxicities are seen and
 that the patient meets the re-treatment criteria
 • If any of the events listed in table 2 occur at any time between cycles, the dose must be reduced
 one level, according to table 3 below, for subsequent cycles

 Table 2: Dose modification of trabectedin based on adverse events
 Adverse event Dose Modification
 ANC < 0.5 x 109/L for > 5 days or associated with fever or Reduce dose by one level according to Table 3 below,
 infection for subsequent cycles.
 Platelets < 25 x 109/L
 Increase of bilirubin > ULN and/or alkaline phosphatase > Once dose has been reduced dose escalation in the
 2.5 x ULN subsequent cycles is not recommended.
 Increase of aminotransferases (AST or ALT) > 5.0 x ULN
 If any of these toxicities reappear in subsequent cycles
 Any other grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions in patient exhibiting clinical benefit, the dose may be
 further reduced (see Table 3). Colony stimulating
 factors can be administered for haematologic toxicity
 (Refer to local policy).

 Table 3: Dose modification table for trabectedin and PLD in ovarian carcinoma
 Trabectedin PLD
 Starting dose 1.1mg/m2 30mg/m2
 2
 First reduction 0.9mg/m 25mg/m2
 2
 Second reduction 0.75mg/m 20mg/m2

NCCP Regimen: Trabectedin and Pegylated Published: 11/11/2016
 Version number: 6
Liposomal DOXOrubicin Therapy Review: 26/05/2031
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00375
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 4: Dose modifications in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Pegylated liposomal No need for dose adjustment is Bilirubin Dose
 doxorubicin expected (micromol/L)
 20 - 50 75% of the original dose
 51 - 86 50% of the original dose
 >86 Not recommended

 Haemodialysis: No need for dose
 adjustment is expected
 Trabectedin CrCl ml/minute
 ≥ 30ml/minute: No dose Mild: No need for dose adjustment is
 adjustment is needed expected
 < 30ml/minute: No need for Moderate: 60% of original dose (0·9mg /m2)
 dose adjustment is expected
 Haemodialysis: No dose Severe: Not recommended
 adjustment is expected
 Recommendations as per Giraud et al 2023

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

 Pegylated Liposomal DOXOrubicin: Low (Refer to local policy)
 Trabectedin: Moderate (Refer to local policy)

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS:
 All patients must receive corticosteroids e.g. 20 mg of dexAMETHasone intravenously 30 minutes prior to
 pegylated liposomal DOXOrubicin not only as anti-emetic prophylaxis, but also because it appears to
 provide hepatoprotective effects.

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 Other strategies to prevent and treat PPE, which may be initiated for 4 to 7 days after treatment
 with pegylated liposomal DOXOrubicin include keeping hands and feet cool, by exposing them to
 cool water (soaks, baths, or swimming), avoiding excessive heat/hot water and keeping them
 unrestricted (no socks, gloves, or shoes that are tight fitting) (Refer to local policy).

 ADVERSE EFFECTS
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

NCCP Regimen: Trabectedin and Pegylated Published: 11/11/2016
 Version number: 6
Liposomal DOXOrubicin Therapy Review: 26/05/2031
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00375
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
 • Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details
 • Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS): Including serious cases resulting in death, has been observed
 uncommonly with this treatment. Monitor for symptoms including peripheral oedema, weight
 gain, abdominal distension, a sense of fullness or bloating, hypotension, hypoalbuminaemia and/or
 fatigue. A rapid decline in serum albumin may be indicative of capillary leak syndrome
 • Immunisation with live vaccines: Combination of trabectedin with phenytoin or live attenuated
 vaccines is not recommended and with yellow fever vaccine is specifically contraindicated
 • Cardiac Dysfunction: Patients should be monitored for cardiac-related adverse events or
 myocardial dysfunction. A thorough cardiac assessment including determination of left ventricular
 ejection fraction (LVEF) by echocardiogram or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) should be
 conducted before initiation of trabectedin and at 2 to 3-month intervals thereafter until
 trabectedin is discontinued. Patients with LVEF less than the lower limit of normal (LVEF < LLN),
 prior cumulative anthracycline dose of >300mg/m2, aged > 65 years, or a history of cardiovascular
 disease (especially in those with cardiac medication) may be at increased risk of cardiac
 dysfunction at treatment with trabectedin as monotherapy or in combination with doxorubicin. For
 patients with Grade 3 or 4 cardiac adverse events indicative of cardiomyopathy or for patients with
 a LVEF that decreases below the LLN (assessed as either an absolute decrease of LVEF of ≥15% or
 <LLN with an absolute decrease of ≥5%), trabectedin should be discontinued
 • Rhabdomyolysis and severe CPK elevations (> 5 x ULN): Trabectedin must not be used in patients
 with CPK > 2.5 x ULN. Rhabdomyolysis has been uncommonly reported, usually in association with
 myelotoxicity, severe liver function test abnormalities and/or renal or multiorgan failure.
 Therefore, CPK should be closely monitored whenever a patient may be experiencing any of these
 toxicities or muscle weakness or muscle pain. If rhabdomyolysis occurs, supportive measures such
 as parenteral hydration, urine alkalinisation and dialysis should be promptly established, as
 indicated. Treatment with trabectedin should be discontinued until the patient fully recovers.
 Caution should be taken if medicinal products associated with rhabdomyolysis (e.g. statins), are
 administered concomitantly with trabectedin, since the risk of rhabdomyolysis may be increased
 • Injection site reactions: The use of central venous access is strongly recommended. Patients may
 develop a potentially severe injection site reaction when trabectedin is administered through a
 peripheral venous line. Trabectedin extravasation may cause tissue necrosis requiring debridement
 • Allergic Reactions: During postmarketing experience, hypersensitivity reactions with very rare
 occurrence of fatal outcome, have been reported in association with trabectedin administration
 either alone or in combination with pegylated liposomal DOXOrubicin
 • Acute Infusion Reaction: Usually seen during the first infusion of DOXOrubicin
 • Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (PPE): Monitor patient for presence of PPE. If
 present, patient may require an interruption in treatment (see dose modifications)
 • Extravasation: Pegylated liposomal DOXOrubicin is considered an irritant (Refer to local
 guidelines)

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

NCCP Regimen: Trabectedin and Pegylated Published: 11/11/2016
 Version number: 6
Liposomal DOXOrubicin Therapy Review: 26/05/2031
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00375
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 REFERENCES:
 1. Monk BJ, Herzog TJ et al. Trabectedin plus Pegylated Liposomal DOXOrubicin in Recurrent Ovarian
 Cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28(19) 3107-3113.
 2. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 3. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 4. Trabectedin (Yondelis®) powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. Summary of Product
 Characteristics. Last updated 03/04/2025. Accessed Nov 2025. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/yondelis-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 5. Caelyx® Summary of product characteristics. Accessed Nov 2025. Last updated: 02/09/2025.
 Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/caelyx-pegylated-
 liposomal-epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 11/11/2016 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated with NCCP regimen
 template. Standardisation of
 2 26/11/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 administration fluid and dosing in
 hepatic impairment
 Reviewed. Updated adverse events
 3 06/01/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 section.
 Amended Table 2 (Dose
 4 20/12/2021 modification: increase of Prof Maccon Keane
 aminotransferases).
 Reviewed: emetogenic potential
 5 06/01/2022 Prof Maccon Keane
 updated.
 Reviewed. Renal and Hepatic table
 updated and aligned to Giraud et al
 2023. Cautions section added.
 6 26/05/2026 Prof Maccon Keane
 Exclusions updated. Regimen
 updated in line with NCCP
 standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.
 iCardiotoxicity is a risk associated with anthracycline therapy that may be manifested by early (acute) or late

 (delayed) effects.
 Risk factors for developing anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity include:
 • high cumulative dose, previous therapy with other anthracyclines or anthracenediones
 • prior or concomitant radiotherapy to the mediastinal/pericardial area
 • pre-existing heart disease
 • concomitant use of other potentially cardiotoxic drugs
 In establishing the maximal cumulative dose of an anthracycline, consideration should be given to the risk
 factors above and to the age of the patient

NCCP Regimen: Trabectedin and Pegylated Published: 11/11/2016
 Version number: 6
Liposomal DOXOrubicin Therapy Review: 26/05/2031
Tumour Group: Gynaecology ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00375
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
