NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Letrozole Monotherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE Approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status
 Adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor positive C50 371a CDS
 invasive early breast cancer.
 Extended adjuvant treatment of hormone-dependent-invasive breast cancer in C50 371b CDS
 postmenopausal women who have received prior adjuvant endocrine therapy for 5
 years
 Advanced breast cancer after relapse or disease progression, in women with C50 371c CDS
 natural or artificially induced postmenopausal endocrine status.
 Neo-adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal women with hormone receptor C50 371d CDS
 positive breast cancer.
 First-line treatment in postmenopausal women with hormone dependent advanced C50 371e CDS
 breast cancer.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Letrozole is administered orally once daily continuously during treatment.

 Duration of adjuvant treatment and treatment of advanced breast cancer will be determined by the
 prescribing Consultant and depends on disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

 In the neoadjuvant setting, treatment with letrozole could be continued for 4 to 8 months in order to
 establish optimal tumour reduction. If the response is not adequate, treatment with letrozole should be
 discontinued and surgery scheduled and/or further treatment options discussed with the patient.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 Letrozole 2.5mg daily PO Continuous daily as indicated until disease progression
 or unacceptable toxicity
 Daily oral supplement of calcium and Vit D are recommended for duration of therapy.
 Tablet should be swallowed whole.
 Can be taken with food or on an empty stomach with a glass of water
 A missed dose should be taken as soon as the patient remembers. However, if it is almost time for the next dose (within 2 or 3
 hours), the missed dose should be skipped, and the patient should go back to her regular dosage schedule. Doses should not be
 doubled because with daily doses over the 2.5 mg recommended dose, over-proportionality in systemic exposure was observed

 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Letrozole Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 23/02/2031
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00371
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to letrozole or any of the excipients
 • Premenopausal endocrine status
 • Pregnancy and breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist or General Practitioner under
 direction of plan written by medical oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 • Check FSH, LH, oestradiol levels if aged less than 55 years and prior hysterectomy or
 uncertain menopausal status due to young age or other factors.
 • Consider baseline bone density assessment in appropriate patients.

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal, liver and lipid profile (as clinically indicated)

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • No recommended dose modifications.
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B: no dose adjustment is needed

 Haemodialysis: no need for dose adjustment is expected Child-Pugh C: 50% of the original dose (2·5mg every
 other day)

 Recommendations for Letrozole as per Giraud et al 2023

 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Letrozole Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 23/02/2031
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00371
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

Letrozole: Minimal (Refer to local policy).

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
information is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: None usually required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Daily oral supplements of calcium and vitamin D are recommended for the duration of the therapy.
Lifestyle modification including regular exercise, particularly weight-bearing exercises should be
encouraged.

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
• Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
• Hepatic dysfunction: Aromatase inhibitors are considered safe in mild-to- moderate hepatic
 dysfunction but have not been studied in severe hepatic dysfunction.
• Bone density: Letrozole is a potent oestrogen-lowering agent. Women with a history of osteoporosis
 and/or fractures, or who are at increased risk of osteoporosis, should have their bone mineral
 density formally assessed prior to the commencement of adjuvant and extended adjuvant treatment
 and monitored during and following treatment with letrozole. Treatment or prophylaxis for
 osteoporosis should be initiated as appropriate and carefully monitored. In the adjuvant setting a
 sequential treatment schedule (letrozole 2 years followed by tamoxifen 3 years) could also be
 considered depending on the patient’s safety profile
• Hyperlipidemia: An increase in cholesterol or triglyceride levels may occur when an aromatase
 inhibitor is initiated. Consideration should be given to checking levels during the first few months of
 therapy, especially in those patients with prior significant lipid elevations.
• Tendonitis and tendon rupture: Tendonitis and tendon rupture (rare) may occur. Close monitoring
 of the patient and appropriate measures (e.g. immobilisation) must be initiated for the affected
 tendon

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Letrozole Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 23/02/2031
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00371
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

REFERENCES:
 1. Thurlimann B, Keshaviah A, Coates AS, et al. A comparison of letrozole and tamoxifen in
 postmenopausal women with early breast cancer. N Engl J Med. 2005;353(26):2747-2757.
 2. Mouridsen H, GiobbieHurder A, Goldhirsch A, et al. Letrozole therapy alone or in sequence with
 tamoxifen in women with breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2009;361(8):766-776.
 3. Eisen A, Trudeau M, Shelley W, et al. Aromatase inhibitors in adjuvant therapy for hormone
 receptor positive breast cancer: a systematic review. Cancer Treat Rev 2008;34(2):157-174.
 4. Mouridsen H, Gershanovich M, Sun Y, et al. Superior efficacy of letrozole versus tamoxifen as first
 line therapy for postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer: results of a phase III study
 of the International Letrozole Breast Cancer Group. J Clin Oncol 2001;19(10):2596-2606.
 5. Ellis M J, Coop A, Singh B, et al. Letrozole is more effective neoadjuvant endocrine therapy than
 tamoxifen for ErbB-1- and/or ErbB-2-positive, estrogen receptor-positive primary breast cancer:
 evidence from a phase III randomized trial. J Clin Oncol, 2001;19:3808-16.
 6. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 7. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 8. Letrozole Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Dec 2025.Last updated Nov 2019. Available
 at: https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/21055/Licence_PA0749-085-001_12112019144136.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 11/11/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated to new NCCP template.
 Updated dosing in severe hepatic
 2 26/11/2018 impairment Prof Maccon Keane
 Clarification on duration of
 treatment
 Reviewed.
 3 9/12/2020 Updated exclusion criteria and Prof Maccon Keane
 adverse events section.
 Reviewed. New indication 00371e
 added. Addition of regular testing
 section, updated renal and hepatic
 4 23/02/2026 Prof Maccon Keane
 impairment in line with
 Giraud.Updated in line with NCCP
 standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 11/11/2016
NCCP Regimen: Letrozole Monotherapy Version number: 4
 Review: 23/02/2031
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00371
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
