NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Nintedanib Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of adult patients with locally advanced, metastatic of stage IIIB C34 00372a Nintedanib-CDS
 or IV, or locally recurrent NSCLC of adenocarcinoma tumour histology after DOCEtaxel – N/A
 first-line chemotherapy
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Nintedanib and DOCEtaxel Therapy
 • Nintedanib 200mg is administered twice daily approximately 12 hours apart, on days 2 to 21 of a
 standard 21-day DOCEtaxel treatment cycle for up to six cycles.
 • Nintedanib must not be taken on the same day of DOCEtaxel chemotherapy administration (= day 1)

 Nintedanib Monotherapy
 • Patients must receive at least 4 cycles of combination therapy with DOCEtaxel before continuing
 with nintedanib monotherapy.
 • Patients may continue therapy with nindetanib after discontinuation of DOCEtaxel for as long as
 clinical benefit is observed or until unacceptable toxicity develops.
 • Nintedanib 200mg is administered twice daily approximately 12 hours apart continuously based on a
 28 day cycle

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1 DOCEtaxel 75mg/m2 IV infusion 1
 250mL NaCl 0.9% over 60 Every 21 days for up to 6
 minutes cycles
 2-212 Nintedanib 200mg twice PO with food at the N/A Every 21 days for
 daily same time each day3, 4 up to 6 cycles

 Primary prophylaxis with G-CSF should be considered to reduce the risk of neutropenic complications (See Adverse
 Effects/Regimen Specific Complications)
 1
 75-185mg dose use 250mL infusion bag. For doses > 185mg use 500mL infusion bag
 Use non-PVC infusion bag.
 2
 For patients continuing on nintedanib therapy cycle length is taken at 28 days and nintedanib is administered twice daily
 continuously.
 3
 Nintedanib capsules must be taken orally, preferably with food, swallowed whole with water, and must not be chewed or
 crushed.
 4
 If a dose of nintedanib is missed, administration should resume at the next scheduled time at the recommended dose.
 The individual daily doses of nintedanib should not be increased beyond the recommended dose to make up for missed
 doses.
 The recommended maximum daily dose of 400 mg should not be exceeded.

 Published: 01/02/2017
NCCP Regimen: Nintedanib Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 31/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate

NCCP Regimen Code: 00372 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above.
 • ECOG status 0-1.
 • Life expectancy > 3 months.

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to nintedanib, peanut or soya, DOCEtaxel or any of the excipients
 • More than one prior chemotherapy regimen for advanced and/or metastatic or recurrent
 NSCLC
 • Severe liver impairment
 • Baseline neutrophil count < 1.5 x 109 cells/L
 • Pregnancy or breast feeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, liver and renal profile
 • Blood pressure

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, liver and renal profile prior to each treatment cycle and as clinically indicated
 • Blood pressure as clinically indicated
 *See Adverse Effects/Regimen specific complications for guidelines regarding hepatic dysfunction

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
 • Dosing interruption may be required for the management of adverse reactions relating to
 nintedanib and DOCEtaxel (see Table 4 and 5 below).
 o After recovery nintedanib may be resumed at a reduced dose.
 o Dose adjustments in 100mg steps per day based on individual safety and tolerability
 are recommended as described in Table 4 and 5.

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Modification of DOCEtaxel dosing based on haematological parameters
 ANC (x109/L) Recommended dose
 ≥ 1.5 75mg/m2
 0.5 to less than 1.5 Delay treatment until recovery
 Febrile neutropenia or Reduce dose from 75 to 60mg/m2. Discontinue
 <0.5 for more than 1 week treatment if continues at lower dose.

 Published: 01/02/2017
NCCP Regimen: Nintedanib Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 31/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate

NCCP Regimen Code: 00372 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 DOCEtaxel No dose reduction necessary See Table 3 Below
 Nintedanib CrCl (mL/min) Dose Mild (Child Pugh A) 100% Dose
 >30 100% Moderate (Child Pugh B) Not recommended
 <30 Has not been studied or severe (Child Pugh C)

 Table 3: Dose modification of DOCEtaxel in hepatic impairment
 Alkaline AST and/or ALT Serum Dose
 Phosphatase Bilirubin
 > 2.5 ULN and > 1.5 ULN 75 mg/m2
 > 6 ULN and > 3.5 ULN (AST and > ULN Stop treatment unless strictly indicated and
 /or and ALT) should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Table 4: Recommended dose adjustments for nintedanib in case of AST and/or ALT and bilirubin elevations
 AST ALT Bilirubin ALKP Recommended dose modification
 >2.5 x ULN and/or >2.5 x ULN and ≥1.5 x ULN After treatment interruption and
 recovery of transaminase values to
 ≤2.5 x ULN in conjunction with
 OR bilirubin to normal, dose reduction
 from 200mg BD to 150mg BD.
 >5 x ULN and/or >5 x ULN If a second dose reduction is
 considered necessary from 150mg
 BD to 100mg BD.
 >3 x ULN and/or >3 x ULN and ≥2 x ULN and < 2 x ULN Unless there is an alternative cause
 established nintedanib should be
 permanently discontinued.
 AST: Aspartate aminotransferase; ALT :Alanine aminotransferase;
 ALKP:Alkaline phosphatise; ULN: Upper Limit normal

 Management of adverse events
 Table 5: Dose modification schedule based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Nintedanib
 Diarrhoea After treatment interruption and recovery to grade 1 or
 Grade ≥ 2 for > 7 consecutive days despite anti- baseline, dose reduction from 200mg BD to 150mg BD and if
 diarrhoeal treatment a second dose reduction is considered necessary from 150mg
 OR BD to 100mg BD.
 Grade ≥ 3 despite anti-diarrhoeal treatment
 Vomiting
 Grade ≥ 2
 AND/OR
 Nausea ≥ grade 3 despite anti-emetic treatment
 Other non-haematological or haematological
 adverse reactions ≥Grade 3
 DOCEtaxel
 Grade 3 skin reaction Decrease dose to 60mg/m2
 Grade >2 peripheral neuropathy If the patient continues to experience these reactions at 60
 Grade 3 or 4 stomatitis mg/m2, the treatment should be discontinued

 Published: 01/02/2017
NCCP Regimen: Nintedanib Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 31/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate

NCCP Regimen Code: 00372 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

DOCEtaxel: Low (Refer to local policy)

Nintedanib: Minimal to Low (Refer to local policy)

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
 available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS:
 • dexAMETHasone 8 mg PO twice daily for 3 days, starting one day prior to each DOCEtaxel
 administration unless contraindicated. Patient must receive minimum of 3 doses pre-treatment.
 • Consideration may be given, at the discretion of the prescribing consultant, to the use of a single
 dose of dexAMETHasone 20mg IV immediately before chemotherapy where patients have missed
 taking the oral premedication dexamethasone as recommended by the manufacturer (3,4).

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 • Contraception in males and females
 • Nintedanib may cause foetal harm in humans. Women of childbearing potential being
 treated with nindetanib should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving this treatment
 and to use adequate contraception during and at least 3 months after the last dose of nindetanib.
 The efficacy of oral hormonal contraceptives may be compromised by vomiting and/or diarrhoea or
 other conditions where the absorption may be affected. Women taking oral hormonal contraceptives
 experiencing these conditions should be advised to use an alternative highly effective contraceptive
 measure such as a barrier method.

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.

Nintedanib
 • Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated
 appropriately. Frequent monitoring of complete blood counts should be performed at the beginning of
 each treatment cycle and around the nadir for patients receiving treatment with nintedanib in
 combination with DOCEtaxel, and as clinically indicated after the administration of the last combination
 cycle.
 • Gastrointestinal effects: Diarrhoea, nausea, and vomiting may occur. Diarrhoea is generally of mild to
 moderate intensity and occurred within the first 3 months of treatment. Treat with appropriate
 supportive care (e.g., adequate hydration, antidiarrhoeals, antiemetics); dose reduction and/or

 Published: 01/02/2017
NCCP Regimen: Nintedanib Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 31/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate

NCCP Regimen Code: 00372 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 treatment interruption may be required. If gastrointestinal effects do not resolve, discontinue
 treatment. In addition, nintedanib may increase the risk of gastrointestinal perforation; only use in
 patients at risk of perforation if the benefit outweighs the risk. Nintedanib therapy should only be
 initiated at least 4 weeks after major surgery. Therapy with nintedanib should be permanently
 discontinued in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation.
 • Bleeding: May increase the risk of bleeding. Non-serious and serious bleeding events, some of which
 were fatal, have been reported in the post-marketing period, including patients with or without
 anticoagulant therapy or other drugs that could cause bleeding. In case of bleeding, dose adjustment,
 interruption or discontinuation should be considered based on clinical judgement.
 • Thromboembolism: Patients treated with nintedanib have an increased risk of venous
 thromboembolism including deep vein thrombosis. Patients should be closely monitored for
 thromboembolic events. Nintedanib should be discontinued in patients with life-threatening venous
 thromboembolic reactions. An increased frequency of arterial thromboembolic events was observed in
 patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) when treated with nintedanib monotherapy. Patients
 with a recent history of myocardial infarction or stroke were excluded from LUME–Lung 1 study. Use
 caution when treating patients with a higher cardiovascular risk including known coronary artery
 disease. Treatment interruption should be considered in patients who develop signs or symptoms of
 acute myocardial ischaemia.
 • Aneurysms and artery dissections: The use of VEGF pathway inhibitors in patients with or without
 hypertension may promote the formation of aneurysms and/or artery dissections. Before initiating
 nintedanib, this risk should be carefully considered in patients with risk factors such as hypertension
 or history of aneurysm
 • Hypertension: Administration of nintedanib may increase blood pressure. Systemic blood pressure
 should be measured periodically and as clinically indicated.
 • Wound healing complication: Based on the mechanism of action nintedanib may impair wound healing.
 No increased frequency of impaired wound healing was observed in the LUME-Lung 1 trial. No
 dedicated studies investigating the effect of nintedanib on wound healing were performed. Treatment
 with nintedanib should therefore only be initiated or - in case of perioperative interruption - resumed
 based on clinical judgement of adequate wound healing.
 • Effect on QT interval: No QT prolongation was observed for nintedanib in the clinical trial program. As
 several other tyrosine kinase inhibitors are known to exert an effect on QT, caution should be exercised
 when administering nintedanib in patients who may develop QTc prolongation.
 • Allergic reaction: Dietary soya-products are known to cause allergic reactions including severe
 anaphylaxis in persons with soya allergy. Patients with known allergy to peanut protein carry an
 enhanced risk for severe reactions to soya preparations.
 • Special populations: Nintedanib exposure increased linearly with patient age, was inversely correlated
 to weight, and was generally higher in patients of Asian race. This may result in a higher risk of
 developing liver enzyme elevations. Close monitoring is recommended in patients with several of these
 risk factors.
 DOCEtaxel
 • Neutropenia: Most frequent adverse reaction. Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed
 promptly and treated appropriately. Frequent blood count monitoring should be conducted in all
 patients treated with DOCEtaxel. DOCEtaxel should be administered when the neutrophil count is >
 1.5x109cells/L.
 • Neutropenic Enterocolitis: A number of cases of neutropenic enterocolitis have been reported in
 patients treated with DOCEtaxel in France (5). This is a known and rare side effect of DOCEtaxel which
 may affect up to one in 1,000 people)
 Published: 01/02/2017
NCCP Regimen: Nintedanib Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 31/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate

NCCP Regimen Code: 00372 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 • Hypersensitivity Reactions: Patients should be observed closely for hypersensitivity reactions especially
 during the first and second infusions of DOCEtaxel. Hypersensitivity reactions may occur within a few
 minutes following the initiation of the infusion of DOCEtaxel, thus facilities for the treatment of
 hypotension and bronchospasm should be available. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, minor
 symptoms such as flushing or localized cutaneous reactions do not require interruption of therapy.
 However, severe reactions, such as severe hypotension, bronchospasm or generalised rash/erythema
 require immediate discontinuation of DOCEtaxel and appropriate therapy. Patients who have
 developed severe hypersensitivity reactions should not be re-challenged with DOCEtaxel.
 • Fluid Retention: Dexamethasone premedication must be given to reduce the incidence and severity of
 fluid retention with DOCEtaxel. It can also reduce the severity of the hypersensitivity reaction.
 • Extravasation: DOCEtaxel causes pain and tissue necrosis if extravasated. (Refer to local extravasation
 guidelines).
 • Hepatic Dysfunction: DOCEtaxel undergoes hepatic metabolism. Hepatic dysfunction (particularly
 elevated AST) may lead to increased toxicity and usually requires a dose reduction.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Nintedanib is a substrate of P-gp. If co-administered with nintedanib, potent P-gp inhibitors (e.g.
 ketoconazole or erythromycin) may increase exposure to nintedanib. In such cases, patients should be
 monitored closely for tolerability of nintedanib. Management of side effects may require interruption,
 dose reduction, or discontinuation of therapy with nindetanib.
 • Potent P-gp inducers (e.g. rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin, and St. John’s Wort) may decrease
 exposure to nintedanib. Co-administration with nintedanib should be carefully considered.
 • The likelihood of drug-drug interactions with nintedanib based on CYP metabolism is considered to be
 low.
 • Risk of drug interactions causing increased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inhibitors. Patients
 should also be counselled with regard to consumption of grapefruit juice.
 • Risk of drug interactions causing decreased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inducers.
 • Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Reck M et al. Docetaxel plus nintedanib versus docetaxel plus placebo in patients with previously
 treated non-small-cell lung cancer (LUME-Lung 1): a phase 3, double-blind, randomised controlled
 trial. Lancet 2014;15:(2) 143–155.
 2. Chouhan et al. Single premedication dose of dexamethasone 20mg IV before docetaxel
 administration. J Oncol Pharm Practice 2010;17(3): 155–159
 3. Rogers ES et al. Efficacy and safety of a single dose of dexamethasone pre docetaxel treatment: The
 Auckland experience. Annals of Oncology (2014) 25 (suppl_4): iv517-iv541.
 4. Fatal Neutropenic Enterocolitis With DOCEtaxel in France by Aude Lecrubier. Available at
 http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/876014
 5. Nintedanib (Vargatef®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed March 2021. Available at
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/vargatef-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 6. DOCEtaxel (Taxotere®). Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed Mar 2021.
 Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/taxotere-epar-
 product-information_en.pdf.

 Published: 01/02/2017
NCCP Regimen: Nintedanib Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 31/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate

NCCP Regimen Code: 00372 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 7. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V3 2021. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 8. Krens S D, Lassche,Jansman G F G A, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients
 with renal or hepatic impairment. Lancet Onco/2019; 20:e201-08. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-
 2045(19)30145-7

 From 20/05/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to suggest
 any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 01/02/2017 Dr Linda Coate
 2 05/02/2019 Updated with new NCCP template. Prof Maccon Keane
 Standardisation of treatment table
 Updated Adverse events/Regimen
 Specific Complications with respect to
 bleeding as per SmPC
 3 24/09/2019 Updated baseline and regular testing to Prof Maccon Keane
 include blood pressure
 Updated Adverse effects/regimen
 specific complications with respect to
 aneurysms,artery dissections and
 hypertension as per SmPC update
 4 31/03/2021 Reviewed. Updated emetogenic Prof Maccon Keane
 potential. Updated supportive care with
 respect to contraception as per SmPC.
 5 09/09/2021 Clarification of requirement for non-PVC Prof Maccon Keane
 infusion bag only.
 6 20/05/2026 Amendment to review schedule. NCCP
 Addition of links in emetogenic potential
 section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 01/02/2017
NCCP Regimen: Nintedanib Therapy Version number: 6
 Date Last Reviewed: 31/03/2021
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor: Dr Linda Coate

NCCP Regimen Code: 00372 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
