NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Gilteritinib Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 As monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients who have relapsed or C92 00684a CDS
 refractory acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with a FLT3 mutation.* 01/10/2025

 * In the event that patients re-initiate gilteritinib post haematopoietic
 stem cell transplant (HSCT) as maintenance therapy, gilteritinib treatment
 should be restricted to patients who are minimal residual disease (MRD)-
 positive post-transplant.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.
  The recommended starting dose of gilteritinib is 120 mg (3 x 40mg tablets) once daily.
  Treatment should continue until the patient is no longer clinically benefiting from gilteritinib or
 until unacceptable toxicity occurs.
  Response may be delayed; therefore, continuation of treatment at the prescribed dose for up
 to 6 months should be considered to allow time for a clinical response.
  In the absence of a response (patient did not achieve a composite complete remission (CRc)
 after 4 weeks of treatment, the dose can be increased to 200 mg (5 x 40mg tablets) ONCE daily,
 if tolerated or clinically warranted.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle

 Gilteritinib 120mg once daily PO Continuous
 Gilteritinib is available as 40mg tablets and can be taken with or without food. The tablets should be swallowed whole
 with water and should not be broken or crushed.
 Gilteritinib should be administered at about the same time each day. If a dose is missed or not taken at the usual time, the
 dose should be administered as soon as possible on the same day, and patients should return to the normal schedule the
 following day.
 If vomiting occurs after dosing, patients should not take another dose but should return to the normal schedule the
 following day.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indication as above
  ECOG 0-2
 o (patients with ECOG 3 may be considered at consultant discretion)
  Adequate organ function

 Published: 01/10/2025
NCCP Regimen: Gilteritinib Therapy Version number: 1
 Review: 01/10/2026
Tumour Group: Leukaemia and Myeloid
Neoplasms IHS Contributor: Dr. Janusz Krawczyk Page 1 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00684
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 CAUTIONS:
  Clinically significant abnormality of coagulation profile, such as disseminated intravascular
 coagulation.
  Symptomatic congestive heart failure
  Active uncontrolled infection
  Clinically active central nervous system leukaemia
  Treatment with concomitant drugs that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 or strong inhibitors or
 inducers of P-gp or substrates of MATE1 with the exception of drugs that are considered
 absolutely essential for the care of the subject. If combination cannot be avoided, close
 monitoring of gilteritinib-related adverse effects is advised.

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to gilteritinib or any of the excipients.
  Pregnancy
  Women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception
  Breastfeeding

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Haematologist working in the area of haematological
 malignancies.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Confirmation of FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) mutation (internal tandem duplication [ITD]
 or tyrosine kinase domain [TKD]) using a validated test.
  Lipase and amylase
  Bone profile
  LDH and Creatinine kinase(CK)
  Coagulation profile
  ECHO or MUGA
  ECG
  Females of reproductive potential should be advised to have a pregnancy test within seven
 days prior to starting treatment
  Virology screening* - Hepatitis B virus (HBV) serology [HBV sAg, HBV sAb, HBV cAb], hepatitis
 C virus (HCV) serology, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serology, cytomegalovirus (CMV)
 serology [IgG] and additional screening as clinically indicated
 *(See Regimen Specific Complications for information on Hepatitis B reactivation)

 Published: 01/10/2025
NCCP Regimen: Gilteritinib Therapy Version number: 1
 Review: 01/10/2026
Tumour Group: Leukaemia and Myeloid
Neoplasms IHS Contributor: Dr. Janusz Krawczyk Page 2 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00684
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile, bone profile, LDH and CK should be monitored at a minimum on
 day 1 and day 15 of cycle 1 and at least monthly for the duration of treatment or as clinically
 indicated depending on blood counts.
  Amylase as clinically indicated
  ECG on day 8, 15 of cycle 1 and prior to the start of the next three subsequent months of
 treatment and as clinically indicated.

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
  Dose interruptions and reductions are permitted for the management of gilteritinib induced
 toxicities, as outlined in Table 1 below.

 Table 1: Gilteritinib dose interruption, reduction and discontinuation in patients with replased or refractory AML
 Criteria Gilteritinib Dosing
 Differentiation syndrome  If differentiation syndrome is suspected, administer
 corticosteroids and initiate hemodynamic monitoring.
  Interrupt gilteritinib if severe signs and/or symptoms
 persist for more than 48 hours after initiation of
 corticosteroids.
  Resume gilteritinib at the same dose when signs and
 symptoms improve to Grade 2a or lower.
 Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome  Discontinue gilteritinib.
 QTcF interval >500 msec  Interrupt gilteritinib.
  Resume gilteritinib at a reduced dose (80 mg or 120 mgb)
 when QTcF interval returns to within 30 msec of baseline
 or ≤ 480 msec.
 QTcF interval increased by >30 msec on ECG on  Confirm with ECG on day 9.
 day 8 of cycle 1  If confirmed, consider dose reduction to 80 mg.
 Pancreatitis  Interrupt gilteritinib until pancreatitis is resolved.
  Resume treatment with gilteritinib at a reduced dose (80
 mg or 120 mgb).
 a
 Other Grade 3 or higher toxicity considered  Interrupt gilteritinib until toxicity resolves or improves to
 related to treatment Grade 1a.
  Resume treatment with gilteritinib at a reduced dose (80
 mg or 120 mgb).
 Planned HSCT  Interrupt treatment with gilteritinib one week prior to
 administration of the conditioning regimen for HSCT.

 Published: 01/10/2025
NCCP Regimen: Gilteritinib Therapy Version number: 1
 Review: 01/10/2026
Tumour Group: Leukaemia and Myeloid
Neoplasms IHS Contributor: Dr. Janusz Krawczyk Page 3 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00684
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Treatment can be resumed 30 days after HSCT if
 engraftment was successful, the patient did not have
 grade ≥2 acute graft versus host disease and was in
 CRcc,d.
 aGrade 1 is mild, Grade 2 is moderate, Grade 3 is serious, Grade 4 is life-threatening
 b The daily dose can be reduced from 120 mg to 80 mg or from 200 mg to 120 mg.
 c Composite complete remission (CRc) is defined as the remission rate of all CR, CRp [achieved CR except for incomplete

 platelet recovery (<100 x 109/L)] and CRi (achieved all criteria for CR except for incomplete haematological recovery
 with residual neutropenia <1 x 109/L with or without complete platelet recovery).
 d
 .In the event that patients re-initiate gilteritinib post haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) as maintenance
 therapy, gilteritinib treatment should be restricted to patients who are minimal residual disease (MRD)-positive post-
 transplant.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of gilteritinib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Recommended dose Hepatic Impairment Recommended dose
 modification modification
 CrCl ≥ 30 mL/min No dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B or No dose adjustment is
 mild/moderate needed

 CrCl < 30 mL/min No need for dose adjustment is Child-Pugh C and severe Not recommended
 and expected
 In Haemodialysis

 Recommendations from Giraud et al 2023

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

 Gilteritinib: Minimal-Low (Refer to local policy)

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on NCCP website

 Published: 01/10/2025
NCCP Regimen: Gilteritinib Therapy Version number: 1
 Review: 01/10/2026
Tumour Group: Leukaemia and Myeloid
Neoplasms IHS Contributor: Dr. Janusz Krawczyk Page 4 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00684
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  PJP prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Anti-viral prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Anti-fungal prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Tumour Lysis Syndrome prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Contraception (see Regimen Specific complications)

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS

  Hepatitis B Reactivation: Patients should be tested for both HBsAg and HBcoreAb as per local
 policy. If either test is positive, such patients should be treated with anti-viral therapy. (Refer to
 local infectious disease policy). These patients should be considered for assessment by
 hepatology.
  Differentiation syndrome: Gilteritinib has been associated with differentiation syndrome. If
 differentiation syndrome is suspected, corticosteroid therapy should be initiated along with
 hemodynamic monitoring until symptom resolution. If severe signs and/or symptoms persist for
 more than 48 hours after initiation of corticosteroids, gilteritinib should be interrupted until signs
 and symptoms are no longer severe, as per Table 1 above. Corticosteroids can be tapered after
 resolution of symptoms and should be administered for a minimum of 3 days. Symptoms of
 differentiation syndrome may recur with premature discontinuation of corticosteroid treatment.
  Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES): PRES has been reported in patients
 receiving gilteritinib. If PRES is suspected, it should be confirmed by brain imaging, preferably
 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Discontinuation of gilteritinib in patients who develop PRES is
 recommended.
  Prolonged QT interval: Gilteritinib has been associated with prolonged QT interval. QT
 prolongation can be observed in the first three months of treatment with gilteritinib. Caution is
 warranted in patients with relevant cardiac history. Hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia may
 increase the QT prolongation risk. Hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia should therefore be
 corrected prior to and during gilteritinib treatment. Gilteritinib should be interrupted in patients
 who have a QTcF >500 msec, as per Table 1 above. The decision to re-introduce gilteritinib
 treatment after an event of QT prolongation should be based on a careful consideration of benefits
 and risks. If gilteritinib is re-introduced at a reduced dose, ECG should be performed after 15 days
 of dosing, and prior to the start of the next three subsequent months of treatment.
  Pancreatitis: There have been reports of pancreatitis. Patients who develop signs and symptoms
 suggestive of pancreatitis should be evaluated and monitored. Gilteritinib should be interrupted
 and can be resumed at a reduced dose when the signs and symptoms of pancreatitis have resolved.
  Concomitant use of inducers of CYP3A4/P-gp: Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4/P-gp inducers

 Published: 01/10/2025
NCCP Regimen: Gilteritinib Therapy Version number: 1
 Review: 01/10/2026
Tumour Group: Leukaemia and Myeloid
Neoplasms IHS Contributor: Dr. Janusz Krawczyk Page 5 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00684
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 should be avoided due to the risk of decreased efficacy of gilteritinib. Caution is required when
 concomitantly prescribing gilteritinib with medicinal products that are strong inhibitors of CYP3A,
 P-gp and/or breast cancer resistant protein (BCRP) because they can increase gilteritinib exposure.
 Alternative medicinal products that do not strongly inhibit CYP3A, P-gp and/or BCRP activity should
 be considered. In situations where satisfactory therapeutic alternatives do not exist, patients
 should be closely monitored for toxicities during administration of gilteritinib.
  Gilteritinib may reduce the effects of medicinal products that target 5HT2B receptor or sigma
 nonspecific receptors. Therefore, concomitant use of gilteritinib with these products should be
 avoided unless use is considered essential for the care of the patient.
  Embryofoetal toxicity and contraception: Females of reproductive potential should be advised to
 have a pregnancy test within seven days prior to starting treatment with gilteritinib and to use
 effective contraception during treatment with gilteritinib and for at least 6 months after stopping
 treatment. Women using hormonal contraceptives should add a barrier method of contraception.
 Males with female partners of reproductive potential should be advised to use effective
 contraception during treatment and for at least 4 months after the last dose of gilteritinib.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Perl, A. E., G. Martinelli, J. E. Cortes, et al. 2019. "Gilteritinib or Chemotherapy for Relapsed or
 Refractory FLT3-Mutated AML." N Engl J Med 381(18):1728-1740.
 https://www.nejm.org/doi/10.1056/NEJMoa1902688?url_ver=Z39.88-
 2003&rfr_id=ori:rid:crossref.org&rfr_dat=cr_pub%20%200pubmed
 2. Perl AE, Larson RA, Podoltsev NA, et al. Follow-up of patients with R/R FLT3- mutation-positive
 AML treated with gilteritinib in the phase 3 ADMIRAL trial. Blood 2022;139:3366-3375
 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35081255/
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Gilteritinib (Xospata®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 09/07/2024. Accessed
 April 2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/xospata-epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 01/10/2025 Dr. Janusz Krawczyk

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Published: 01/10/2025
NCCP Regimen: Gilteritinib Therapy Version number: 1
 Review: 01/10/2026
Tumour Group: Leukaemia and Myeloid
Neoplasms IHS Contributor: Dr. Janusz Krawczyk Page 6 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00684
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
