NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Palbociclib Therapy - 28 day

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE Approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal C50 00414a N/A
 growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally advanced or
 metastatic breast cancer in combination with an aromatase inhibitor
 Treatment of hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal C50 00414b N/A
 growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally advanced or
 metastatic breast cancer in combination with fulvestrant in women
 who have received prior endocrine therapy
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Palbociclib is taken once daily for 21 consecutive days followed by 7 days off treatment to comprise a
 complete cycle of 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops whichever occurs first.

 Day Drug Dose Route and Method of administration Cycle
 1-21 *Palbociclib 125mg daily PO taken with food, preferably a meal to Every 28 days
 ensure consistent palbociclib exposure
 *Please note palbociclib should be administered in combination with either an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant.
 In pre-or perimenopausal women, the endocrine therapy should be combined with a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
 (LHRH) agonist.
 Palbociclib should not be taken with grapefruit or grapefruit juice.
 Pablociclib capsules should be swallowed whole (should not be chewed, crushed, or opened prior to swallowing).
 No capsule should be ingested if it is broken, cracked, or otherwise not intact.
 Patients should be encouraged to take their dose at approximately the same time each day.
 If the patient vomits or misses a dose, an additional dose should not be taken that day.
 The next prescribed dose should be taken at the usual time.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to palbociclib or any of the excipients
  Pregnancy
  Breastfeeding

NCCP Regimen: Palbociclib Published: 01/06/2018
 Version number: 5
Therapy-28 day Review: 15/10/2030
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributors: Dr. Janice Walshe, Prof

NCCP Regimen Code: 00414 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
  FBC day 1 and day 15 of first 2 cycles and as clinically indicated
  FBC day 1 from cycle 3 onwards
  For patients who experience a maximum of Grade 1 or 2 neutropenia in the first 6 cycles,
 complete blood counts for subsequent cycles should be monitored every 3 months, prior to the
 beginning of a cycle and as clinically indicated
  Renal and liver profile prior to each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Management of some adverse reactions may require temporary dose interruptions/delays,
 and/or dose reductions, or permanent discontinuation as per dose reduction schedules provided
 in Tables 1, 2, and 3

 Table 1: Recommended dose modifications of palbociclib for adverse reactions
 Dose Level Dose
 Recommended dose 125mg/day
 First dose reduction (Dose level -1) 100mg/day
 Second dose reduction (Dose level -2) 75mg/day*
 *
 If further dose reduction below 75mg/day is required, discontinue treatment

 Haematological:
 Table 2: Dose modification of palbociclib and management-Haematological toxicities
 Grade* ANC Platelets Dose Modifications
 ( x109/L) ( x 109/L)
 Grade 1 or 2 ≥ 1.0 ≥ 50 No dose adjustment is required.
 Grade 3 0.5-0.99 25-49 Day 1 of cycle:
 Withhold palbociclib, repeat complete blood count monitoring
 within 1 week.
 When recovered to ANC ≥ 1x109/L and platelets≥ 50 x109/L,
 start the next cycle at the same dose.

 Day 15 of first 2 cycles:
 If Grade 3 (ANC 0.5- <1 x 109/L, platelets 25-<50 x 109/L) on
 Day 15, continue palbociclib at the current dose to complete
 cycle and repeat complete blood count on Day 22.If Grade 4
 (ANC < 0.5 x 109/L, platelets < 25 x 109/L) on Day 22, see Grade
 4 dose modification guidelines below.

NCCP Regimen: Palbociclib Published: 01/06/2018
 Version number: 5
Therapy-28 day Review: 15/10/2030
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributors: Dr. Janice Walshe, Prof

NCCP Regimen Code: 00414 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Consider dose reduction in cases of prolonged (>1 week)
 recovery from Grade 3 neutropenia or recurrent Grade 3
 neutropenia on Day 1 of subsequent cycles.

 Grade 3 0.5-0.99 Any At any time:
 + Fever ≥ 38.5 0C Withhold palbociclib until recovery to ANC ≥ 1x109/L and
 and/or infection platelets ≥ 50 x109/L
 Resume at next lower dose
 Grade 4 <0.5 <25 At any time:
 Withhold palbociclib until recovery to ANC ≥ 1x109/L and
 platelets ≥ 50 x109/L
 Resume at next lower dose
 * Grading according to CTCAE v4.0

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Dose modification of palbociclib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Dose Modifications Dose Modifications
 Renal impairment: no dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B: no dose adjustment is needed

 Heamodialysis: no need for dose adjustment is Child-Pugh C: 60% of the original dose
 expected

 Recommendations for palbociclib as per Giraud et al 2023

 Non-Haematological Toxicity:
 Table 4: Palbociclib dose modification and management- Non-Haematological toxicities
 CTCAE Grade* Dose Modifications
 Grade 1 or 2 No dose adjustment is required.
 Grade  3 non-haematological toxicity (if Withhold palbociclib until symptoms resolve to:
 persisting despite medical treatment)  Grade ≤ 1,
  Grade 2 ( if not considered a safety risk for the patient)
 Resume at the next lower dose
 *Grading according to CTCAE v4.0.

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting- Available on
 the NCCP website

NCCP Regimen: Palbociclib Published: 01/06/2018
 Version number: 5
Therapy-28 day Review: 15/10/2030
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributors: Dr. Janice Walshe, Prof

NCCP Regimen Code: 00414 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

Palbociclib-Minimal to Low (Refer to local policy).

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Ovarian ablation or suppression with an LHRH agonist is mandatory when pre/perimenopausal women
 are administered palbociclib in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, due to the mechanism of
 action of aromatase inhibitors.
  Palbociclib in combination with fulvestrant in pre/perimenopausal women has only been studied in
 combination with an LHRH agonist.
  Women of childbearing potential or their male partners must use a highly effective method of
 contraception while taking palbociclib.

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
Palbociclib is subject to additional monitoring. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse
reactions.
  Interstitial lung disease (ILD) and/or pneumonitis: Patients should be regularly monitored for pulmonary
 symptoms indicative of ILD and/or pneumonitis. Patients with new or worsening respiratory symptoms
 should have treatment interrupted for further evaluation. Patients found to have severe ILD or
 pneumonitis should have CDK 4/6 inhibitor therapy permanently discontinued.
  Concomitant treatment with inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4: Strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 may lead to
 increased toxicity. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors during treatment with palbociclib should
 be avoided. Co-administration should only be considered after careful evaluation of the potential benefits
 and risks. If co-administration with a strong CYP3A inhibitor is unavoidable, reduce the palbociclib dose
 to 75 mg once daily. When the strong inhibitor is discontinued, increase the palbociclib dose (after 3–5
 half-lives of the inhibitor) to the dose used prior to the initiation of the strong CYP3A inhibitor.
 Coadministration of CYP3A inducers may lead to decreased palbociclib exposure and consequently a risk
 for lack of efficacy. Therefore, concomitant use of palbociclib with strong CYP3A4 inducers should be
 avoided. No dose adjustments are required for coadministration of palbociclib with moderate CYP3A
 inducers.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

NCCP Regimen: Palbociclib Published: 01/06/2018
 Version number: 5
Therapy-28 day Review: 15/10/2030
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributors: Dr. Janice Walshe, Prof

NCCP Regimen Code: 00414 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 REFERENCES:
 1. Finn RS, Martin M et al. Palbociclib and Letrozole in Advanced Breast Cancer NEJM 2016
 ;375:1925-36.
 2. Cristofannilli M et al. Fulvestrant plus palbociclib versus fulvestrant plus placebo for treatment
 of hormone-receptor-positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer that progressed on
 previous endocrine therapy (PALOMA-3): final analysis of the multicentre, double-blind, phase
 3 randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2016;17 (4):425-439
 3. FDA Special Alerts: Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4/6 Inhibitors Safety Alert September 2019
 available at: https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-warns-about-rare-
 severe-lung-inflammation-ibrance-kisqali-and-verzenio-breast-cancer
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal
 or hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 6. Palbociclib (IBRANCE®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed 27th August 2025. Last
 updated 16th July 2021. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/ibrance-epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 31/05/2018 Dr J Walshe
 2 18/10/2018 Updated Regular Tests Dr J Walshe
 3 23/10/2019 Updated adverse events/regimen specific complications Prof Maccon Keane
 as per FDA Safety alert regarding ILD/pneumonitis
 4 23/10/2020 Reviewed. Updated regular tests section. Prof Maccon Keane
 5 15/10/2025 Reviewed. Updated in line with standard wording. Prof Maccon Keane
 Amendment to table 2.Updated dose modifications in
 renal and Hepatic impairment in line with Giraud et al
 2023.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Palbociclib Published: 01/06/2018
 Version number: 5
Therapy-28 day Review: 15/10/2030
Tumour Group: Breast ISMO Contributors: Dr. Janice Walshe, Prof

NCCP Regimen Code: 00414 Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
