NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Bortezomib Maintenance Therapy- 14 dayi

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Maintenance treatment for patients with high risk C90 00435a N/A
 multiple myeloma.
 * This is for post 2012 indications only.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Bortezomib is administered once every 14 days for 2 years or until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity occurs.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle
 1 Bortezomib 1.3mg/m2 a,b
 SC (abdomen or thigh) Every 14 days
 a
 Note: In individual cases where approved by consultant, bortezomib may be administered as IV bolus over 3-5
 seconds through a peripheral or central intravenous catheter followed by a flush with 0.9% NaCl. Note the
 concentration of bortezomib solution should be 1mg/mL when administered via the IV route.
 b
 The solution should be injected subcutaneously (SC), at a 45-900 angle. Injection sites should be rotated for
 successive injections. If local injection site reactions occur, either a less concentrated solution may be
 administered SC or a switch to intravenous injection is recommended.
 Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor and is neurotoxic. Refer to NCCP Guidance on the Safe Use of Neurotoxic
 drugs (including Vinca Alkaloids) in the treatment of cancer. Here

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to bortezomib, boron or any of the excipients
  Pregnancy

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Haematologist working in the area of haematological
 malignancies.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal, liver and bone profile
  Blood pressure, blood glucose (patients on oral hypoglycaemics)
  Virology screen -Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBcoreAb) & C, HIV
NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib Published: 30/10/2018
 Version number: 3
Maintenance Therapy-14 day Review: 12/05/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma IHS Contributor: Prof Ezzat Elhassadi

NCCP Regimen Code: 00435
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Regular tests:
  FBC; monitor platelet count prior to each cycle
  Renal, liver and bone profile
  Blood pressure, blood glucose if being treated with oral hypoglycaemics

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Bortezomib therapy should be withheld when the platelet count is < 25 x 109 /L

 Haematological:

 Table 1: Dose modification of bortezomib based on haematological toxicity
 ANC (x 109/L) Platelets (x 109/L) Bortezomib Dose
 ≥ 0.5 and ≥ 30 100% dose
 < 0.5 or <30 Consider delay until recovery checking FBC weekly;
 reduce dose to 1.0 mg/m2
 Reoccurrence of < or Reoccurrence of < 30 Consider delay until recovery checking FBC weekly;
 0.5 further reduce dose to 0.7 mg/m2

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:

 Table 2: Recommended dose modification for renal or hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal impairment Hepatic impairment

 Bortezomib No dose adjustment Grade of Bilirubin (AST) Modification of starting
 is needed. Hepatic Level** Levels** dose
 Impairment*
 Mild ≤1 x ULN > ULN None
 Haemodialysis: no
 >1-1.5xULN Any None
 dose adjustment is
 needed, administer Moderate >1.5-3xULN Any Reduce dose to 0.7mg/m2
 after haemodialysis. Severe >3xULN Any in the first treatment cycle.
 Consider dose escalation
 to 1mg/m2 or further dose
 reduction to 0.5mg/m2 in
 subsequent cycles based
 on patient tolerability.
 Renal dose modifications - Giraud et al 2023.
 Hepatic dose modifications - SmPC
 *Based on NCI Organ Dysfunction Working Group classification for categorising hepatic impairment (mild, moderate, severe)
 **ULN = Upper Limit Normal

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib Published: 30/10/2018
 Version number: 3
Maintenance Therapy-14 day Review: 12/05/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma IHS Contributor: Prof Ezzat Elhassadi

NCCP Regimen Code: 00435
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Neuropathic pain and/or peripheral neuropathy:

 Table 3: Recommended dose modifications for bortezomib-related neuropathy
 Severity of neuropathy Dose Modification
 Grade 1(asymptomatic; loss of deep tendon reflexes or None
 paresthesia) with no pain or loss of function
 Grade 1 with pain or Grade 2 (moderate symptoms; limiting Reduce dose to 1 mg/m2
 instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL))
 Withhold treatment until symptoms of toxicity
 Grade 2 with pain or Grade 3 (severe symptoms; limiting self have resolved. When toxicity resolves re-
 care ADL) initiate treatment and reduce dose to
 0.7mg/m2
 Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention
 indicated) and/or severe autonomic neuropathy Discontinue treatment

 Grading based on NCI Common Toxicity Criteria CTCAE v 4.0

 Dose reductions for other toxicities:

 Table 4: Dose modification schedule of bortezomib based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions Discontinue Recommended dose modification
 Grade ≥ 3 Non-haematological toxicity Withhold treatment until symptoms of the
 toxicity have resolved.
 Treatment may be re-initiated at a 25% reduced
 dose
 (1.3mg/m2 reduced to 1.0mg/m2;
 1.0mg/m2 reduced to 0.7mg/m2).
 If the toxicity is not resolved or if it recurs at the
 lowest dose, discontinuation of bortezomib
 must be considered unless the benefit of
 treatment clearly outweighs the risk
 New or worsening pulmonary symptoms Withhold treatment. Prompt diagnostic
 (e.g. cough, dyspnoea) evaluation required and benefit/risk ratio should
 be considered prior to continuing bortezomib
 therapy.
 Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy
 Syndrome (PRES) Discontinue
 bortezomib
 *Grading based on NCI Common Toxicity Criteria CTCAE v 4.0

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting linked here:

EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL: Low (Refer to local policy).

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - link here

  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - link here

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib Published: 30/10/2018
 Version number: 3
Maintenance Therapy-14 day Review: 12/05/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma IHS Contributor: Prof Ezzat Elhassadi

NCCP Regimen Code: 00435
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required. Ensure patient remains well hydrated during treatment

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Bisphosphonates should be considered in all patients with myeloma related bone disease
  Consider the use of a H2 antagonist or proton pump inhibitor if appropriate in patients receiving
 dexamethasone therapy (Refer to local policy)
  Consider PJP prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Consider low dose anti-viral prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Neben K, Lokhorst HM et al. Administration of bortezomib before and after autologous stem cell
 transplantation improves outcome in multiple myeloma patients with deletion 17p. Blood
 2012;119(4):940-8.
 2. Sonneveld P, Schmidt-Wolf IG et al. Bortezomib induction and maintenance treatment in patients with
 newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: results of the randomized phase III HOVON-65/ GMMG-HD4 trial.
 J Clin Oncol. 2012;30(24):2946.
 3. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V5 2023. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. VELCADE ®Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed March 2021. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/velcade-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 10/10/2018 Prof. Ezzat Elhassadi
 2 12/05/2021 Regimen review Prof. Ezzat Elhassadi
 Updated wording regarding
 management of hepatitis B reactivation

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib Published: 30/10/2018
 Version number: 3
Maintenance Therapy-14 day Review: 12/05/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma IHS Contributor: Prof Ezzat Elhassadi

NCCP Regimen Code: 00435
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 3 29/07/2024 Updated regular testing section. Prof. Ezzat Elhassadi
 Updated renal dose modifications
 section to align to Giraud et al 2023.
 Adverse Effects, Regimen Specific
 Complications and Drug Interactions
 sections removed and replaced with
 standard wording.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i
 This is an unlicensed indication for the use of bortezomib in Ireland. Patient’s should be informed of this and
 consented to treatment in line with the hospital’s policy on the use of unlicensed medication and unlicensed
 or “off label” indications. Prescribers should be fully aware of their responsibility in communicating any
 relevant information to the patient and also ensuring that the unlicensed or “off label” indication has been
 acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs and Therapeutics Committee, or equivalent, in line with hospital policy.

NCCP Regimen: Bortezomib Published: 30/10/2018
 Version number: 3
Maintenance Therapy-14 day Review: 12/05/2026
Tumour Group: Myeloma IHS Contributor: Prof Ezzat Elhassadi

NCCP Regimen Code: 00435
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
