NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Bevacizumab 5mg/kg and Modified FOLFOX- 6 Therapy – 14 days
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of adult patients with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or C18 00446a N/A
 rectum. C19
 C20
 *This applies to post 2012 indications only

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Treatment is administered once every 14 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Admin Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 Order
 1 1 Bevacizumab 5mg/kg IV infusion 100mL 0.9% NaCl over Every 14 days
 90 minutes1
 1The initial dose of bevacizumab should be delivered over 90 minutes as an intravenous infusion.

 If the first infusion is well tolerated, the second infusion may be administered over 60 minutes.
 If the 60-minute infusion is well tolerated, all subsequent infusions may be administered over 30 minutes.
 Alternatively, the unlicensed use of shorter infusion times is described in the NCCP Bevacizumab Rapid Infusion Rate Guidance Available on the NCCP
 website.
 It should not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus.

 2 1 Oxaliplatin 85mg/m2 IV infusion 500mL glucose 5% over Every 14 days
 2 hours2
 3 1 Folinic Acid3 400mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL glucose 5% over Every 14 days
 (Calcium leucovorin) 2 hours
 4 1 5-Fluorouracil 400mg/m2 IV Bolus Every 14 days

 5 1 5-Fluorouracil4 2400mg/m2 Continuous Over 46 hours in 0.9% Every 14 days
 IV infusion NaCl.
 2Oxaliplatin is incompatible with 0.9% NaCl. Do not piggyback or flush lines with normal saline.

 For oxaliplatin doses ≤ 104mg use 250mL glucose 5%.
 Increase infusion rate time to 4 – 6 hours in case of laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia reaction.
 Oxaliplatin administration must always precede the administration of 5-Fluorouracil.
 Oxaliplatin may be given at the same time as Folinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) using a Y connector.
 3Folinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) must be administered prior to 5-Fluorouracil. It enhances the effects of 5-Fluorouracil by increasing 5- Fluorouracil

 binding to the target enzyme thymidylate synthetase.
 Acute neurotoxicity is common with oxaliplatin and can be precipitated on exposure to the cold therefore in this regimen patients should NOT suck on
 ice chips during the bolus injection of 5-Fluorouracil.
 4 See dose modifications section for patients with identified partial dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency.

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indication as above
  ECOG status 0-2
  Adequate haematological, renal and liver status

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to bevacizumab, oxaliplatin, folinic acid, 5-Fluorouracil or to any of the excipients
  Hypersensitivity to Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell products or other recombinant human or
 humanised antibodies
  Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30mL/min)
  Peripheral neuropathy with functional impairment prior to first cycle.
  Pregnancy
  Breast Feeding
  Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

 USE WITH CAUTION:
 Use with caution in patients with
  Previous pelvic radiotherapy
  Pre-existing uncontrolled hypertension
  Clinically significant cardiovascular disease
  Renal disease including proteinuria
  Bleeding/Clotting disorders
  Previous anthracycline exposure
  History of significant venous thromboembolism
  Recent (less than 6 months) arterial thromboembolic events

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Dipstick urinalysis for protein
  Blood pressure measurement
  Cardiac assessment including history and physical exam.
  ECG (if patient has compromised cardiac function)
  INR if clinically indicated
  DPD testing prior to first treatment with 5-Fluorouracil using phenotype and/or genotype
 testing unless patient has been previously tested

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 o In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, blood uracil levels used for
 dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) phenotyping should be interpreted with caution,
 as impaired kidney function can lead to increased uracil blood levels. Consequently, there
 is an increased risk for incorrect diagnosis of DPD deficiency, which may result in under
 dosing of 5-Fluorouracil or other fluoropyrimidines, leading to reduced treatment
 efficacy. Genotype testing for DPD deficiency should be considered for patients with renal
 impairment.

 Regular tests:
  FBC, liver and renal profile prior to each cycle
  Dipstick urinalysis for protein prior to each cycle
  Blood pressure prior to each cycle and post treatment
  Evaluate for peripheral neuropathy every 2 cycles
  INR if clinically indicated*
 *(For patients on warfarin, weekly INR until stable warfarin dose established, then INR prior to each cycle.)

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency
 o Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment
 o In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Bevacizumab dose reduction for adverse events is not recommended (SmPC)
 o If indicated, bevacizumab therapy should either be permanently discontinued or
 temporarily suspended until toxicity resolves (Table 4 and Table 5)
  Bevacizumab or Modified FOLFOX-6 therapy may be delayed independently of each other and
 dosing may continue with either component but consideration should be given to the timings
 of further treatment
  The following dose reductions should be used when calculating FOLFOX dose reductions for
 patients with toxicities

 Table 1: Dose Reduction Levels for All Toxicity
 Dose Level 0 Dose Level -1 Dose Level -2 Dose Level -3
 2 2
 Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m 65 mg/m 50 mg/m2 Discontinue
 2 2
 Folinic Acid 400 mg/m 400 mg/m 400 mg/m2 Discontinue
 (Calcium
 Leucovorin)
 5-Fluorouracil 400 mg/m2 320 mg/m2 260 mg/m2 Discontinue
 bolus
 5-Fluorouracil 2400 mg/m2 1900 mg/m2 1500 mg/m2 Discontinue
 infusion
 Note: Folinic acid is delayed or omitted if bolus 5-Fluorouracil is delayed or omitted

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Haematological:
 Table 2. Dose Modifications of Modified FOLFOX-6 for Haematological Toxicity
 TOXICITY Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Prior to a Cycles (DAY 1) Grade ANC Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
 (x 109/L)
  If ANC< 1.5 on Day 1 of cycle, hold 1 ≥ 1.5 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 treatment, weekly FBC, maximum of 4 2 1.0-1.49 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 weeks 3 0.5-0.99  1 dose level Maintain dose level
  ANC ≥ 1.5 within 4 weeks, proceed with 4 <0.5  1 dose level Omit bolus and 1
 treatment at the dose level noted across infusion dose level
 from the lowest ANC result of the delayed
 week(s)
  If ANC remains <1.5 after 4 weeks
 discontinue treatment

 Grade Platelets Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
 (x109/L)
  If platelets < 75 on Day 1 of cycle, hold 1 ≥ 75 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 treatment, weekly FBC, maximum of 4 2 50-74.9 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 weeks 10-49.9  1 dose level Maintain dose level
  Platelets ≥ 75 within 4 weeks, proceed with 3
 treatment at the dose level noted across 4 <10  2 dose levels Maintain dose level
 from the lowest platelets result of the
 delayed week(s)
  If platelets remain <75 after 4 weeks
 discontinue treatment

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Dose Modifications in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal impairment Hepatic impairment
 Bevacizumab No studies have been performed No studies have been performed in patients with
 in patients with renal impairment. hepatic impairment.

 Oxaliplatin CrCl(mL/min) Dose Little information available.
 >30 Treat at normal Probably no dose reduction necessary
 dose and Clinical decision.
 monitor renal
 function
 <30 Contraindicated
 5-Fluorouracil Consider dose reduction in severe Bilirubin (micromol/L) AST Dose
 renal impairment only.
 <85 <180 100%
 >85 or >180 Contraind
 icated
 Clinical decision.
 Moderate hepatic impairment; reduce initial dose by
 1/3.
 Severe hepatic impairment, reduce initial dose by 1/2.
 Increase dose if no toxicity.

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:
 Proteinuria:
 Table 4: Dose modifications of bevacizumab for proteinuria
 Degree of proteinuria Action
 Neg or 1+ dipstick or less than 1 g/L Administer bevacizumab dose as scheduled
 laboratory urinalysis for protein

 2+ or 3+ dipstick or greater than or equal Administer bevacizumab dose as scheduled. Collect 24-hour urine for
 to 1 g/L laboratory urinalysis for protein determination of total protein within 3 days before the next scheduled
 bevacizumab administration. Adjust bevacizumab treatment based on
 the table below.
 If urine dipstick shows 4+ at baseline or Withhold bevacizumab and proceed with 24 hour urine collection
 during treatment

 24-hour urine total protein (g/24hr) Action

 less than or equal to 2 Proceed
 greater than 2 to 4 Hold dose and recheck 24 hour urine every 2 weeks, resume therapy
 when less than or equal to 2g/24hour

 greater than 4 Discontinue Therapy

 Table 5: Dose modification for adverse events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification

 Hypertension Uncontrolled * or Withhold bevacizumab treatment and start
 symptomatic hypertension antihypertensive therapy or adjust pre-existing
 on Day 1 medication
 Grade 2-3 hypertension Initiate antihypertensive therapy and consider
 interruption of bevacizumab until controlled
 Grade 4 hypertension or Discontinue bevacizumab
 persisting grade 3
 hypertension
 Grade 4 Proteinuria Discontinue bevacizumab
 Tracheoesophageal (TE) fistula or any Grade 4 fistula Discontinue bevacizumab
 Grade 4 Thromboembolic events Discontinue bevacizumab
 Haemorrhagic event ≥ Grade 3 Discontinue bevacizumab
 Gastrointestinal Perforation Discontinue bevacizumab
 *Uncontrolled hypertension for initiating bevacizumab is defined as sustained BP>150/100mmHg while receiving
 anti-hypertensive medication

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 *Peripheral neuropathy
 Grade 2 present at start of cycle Reduce oxaliplatin by 1 dose level
 Grade 3
  First occurrence  1 dose level
  2nd occurrence  1 dose level
  Persistent Discontinue oxaliplatin
 Grade 4 Discontinue oxaliplatin

 Laryngo-pharyngeal dysaesthesia Increase infusion time from 2 to 6 hrs

 Stomatitis Delay treatment until stomatitis reaches level of grade
 1 or less
 Unexplained respiratory symptoms e.g. Non-productive Discontinue oxaliplatin until interstitial disease or
 cough, dyspnoea, crackles or radiological pulmonary pulmonary fibrosis excluded
 infiltrates

 Table 6: Dose modification of FOLFOX-6 for diarrhoea
 TOXICITY Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Prior to a Cycles (DAY 1) Grade Diarrhoea Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
  If diarrhoea greater than 1 Increase of 2-3 stools/day, Maintain dose Maintain dose level
 or equal to Grade 2 on or mild increase in loose level
 Day 1 of cycle, hold watery colostomy output
 treatment. Perform 2 Increase of 4-6 stools, or Maintain dose Maintain dose level
 weekly checks, nocturnal stools or mild level
 maximum 4 times increase in loose watery
  If diarrhoea is less than colostomy output
 Grade 2 within 4 weeks, 3 Increase of 7-9 stools/day or Maintain dose 1 dose level
 proceed with treatment incontinence, level of IV push and
 at the dose level noted malabsorption; or severe infusional 5-
 across from the highest increase in loose watery Fluorouracil
 Grade experienced colostomy output
  If diarrhoea remains 4 Increase of 10 or more  1 dose level 1 dose level
 greater than or equal to stools/day or grossly bloody of IV push and
 Grade 2 after 4 weeks, colostomy output or loose infusional 5-
 discontinue treatment watery colostomy output Fluorouracil
 requiring parenteral
 support; dehydration

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
 Oxaliplatin Moderate (Refer to local policy).
 5-Fluorouracil Low (Refer to local policy).
 Bevacizumab Low (Refer to local policy).

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required unless the patient has had a previous hypersensitivity.

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: Anti-diarrhoeal treatment may be required. (Refer to local policy)

 ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
 The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
 details.
 Bevacizumab:
  Gastrointestinal perforations: Patients may be at an increased risk for the development of
 gastrointestinal perforation and gall bladder perforation when treated with bevacizumab. Therapy
 should be permanently discontinued in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation.
  Wound healing complications: Bevacizumab may adversely affect the wound healing process.
 Therapy should not be initiated for at least 28 days following major surgery or until the surgical
 wound is fully healed. In patients who experienced wound healing complications during therapy,
 treatment should be withheld until the wound is fully healed. Therapy should be withheld for major
 elective surgery for 28 days and for 7 days for minor surgery or as directed by the prescribing
 Consultant.
  Hypertension: An increased incidence of hypertension has been observed in patients treated with
 bevacizumab. Clinical safety data suggest that the incidence of hypertension is likely to be dose-
 dependent.
 o Pre-existing hypertension should be adequately controlled before starting bevacizumab
 treatment. Bevacizumab may be continued in conjunction with standard anti-hypertensive
 therapy at physician’s discretion
 o Patients should have their blood pressure measured before each dose or more frequently if
 hypertension develops/worsens
 o Any patient who develops hypertension (150/100 mmHg) should be treated with anti-
 hypertensive medications, or have their pre-existing medications adjusted. Patients developing
 severe hypertension (200/110 mm Hg) that is not controlled with medication should have
 bevacizumab discontinued
 o It should be permanently discontinued if the patient develops hypertensive crisis or
 hypertensive encephalopathy
  Proteinuria: Patients with a history of hypertension may be at increased risk for the development of
 proteinuria.
  Thromboembolism: Patients receiving bevacizumab plus chemotherapy, with a history of arterial
 thromboembolism or age > 65 years have an increased risk of developing arterial thromboembolic
 reactions during therapy. Caution should be taken when treating these patients. Therapy should be
 permanently discontinued in patients who develop arterial thromboembolic reactions.
  Patients may be at risk of developing venous thromboembolic reactions, including pulmonary
 embolism under bevacizumab treatment. Bevacizumab should be discontinued in patients with life-
 threatening (Grade 4) thromboembolic reactions, including pulmonary embolism. Patients with
 thromboembolic reactions ≤ Grade 3 need to be closely monitored.
  Haemorrhage: Patients treated with bevacizumab have an increased risk of haemorrhage, especially
 tumour associated haemorrhage and minor mucocutaneous haemorrhage. Bevacizumab should be
 used with caution in patients at risk of bleeding.

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Oxaliplatin:
  Platinum Hypersensitivity: Special surveillance should be ensured for patients with a history of
 allergic manifestations to other products containing platinum. In case of anaphylactic
 manifestations, the infusion should be interrupted immediately and an appropriate symptomatic
 treatment started. Re-administration of oxaliplatin to such patients is contraindicated.
  Laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia: An acute syndrome of laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia occurs in
 1-2% of patients and is characterised by subjective sensations of dysphagia or dyspnoea/feeling of
 suffocation, without any objective evidence of respiratory distress (no cyanosis or hypoxia) or of
 laryngospasm or bronchospasm. Symptoms are often precipitated by exposure to cold. Although
 antihistamines and bronchodilators have been administered in such cases, the symptoms are rapidly
 reversible even in the absence of treatment. Prolongation of the infusion helps to reduce the
 incidence of this syndrome.

 5-Fluorouracil:
  Gastrointestinal toxicity: Patients treated with 5-Fluorouracil should be closely monitored for
 diarrhea and managed appropriately.
  Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated
 aggressively.
  Myocardial ischaemia and angina: Cardiotoxicity is a serious complication during treatment with 5-
 Fluorouracil. Patients, especially those with a prior history of cardiac disease or other risk factors,
 treated with fluorouracil, should be carefully monitored during therapy.
  Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency: DPD is an enzyme encoded by the DPYD gene
 which is responsible for the breakdown of fluoropyrimidines. Patients with DPD deficiency are
 therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidine-related toxicity, including for example stomatitis,
 diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and neurotoxicity. Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil,
 capecitabine or tegafur-containing medicinal products is contraindicated in patients with known
 complete DPD deficiency. Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD
 deficiency. Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment. In the absence of serious
 toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful monitoring. Therapeutic drug monitoring
 (TDM) of 5-Fluorouracil may improve clinical outcomes in patients receiving continuous 5-
 Fluorouracil infusions.
  Hand-foot syndrome (HFS): HFS, also known as palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE) has been
 reported as an unusual complication of high dose bolus or protracted continuous therapy for 5-
 Fluorouracil.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  The safety and efficacy of concomitant administration of radiotherapy and bevacizumab has not
 been established.
  No interaction studies have been performed between EGFR antibodies and bevacizumab. EGFR
 monoclonal antibodies should not be administered for the treatment of mCRC in combination with
 bevacizumab-containing chemotherapy. Results from the randomised phase III studies, PACCE and
 CAIRO-2, in patients with mCRC suggest that the use of anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies
 panitumumab and cetuximab, respectively, in combination with bevacizumab plus chemotherapy, is
 associated with decreased PFS and/or OS, and with increased toxicity compared with bevacizumab
 plus chemotherapy alone.

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Concurrent use of bevacizumab and SUNitinib can increase the risk of microangiopathic haemolytic
 anaemia (MAHA).
  Marked elevations of prothrombin time and INR have been reported in patients stabilized on
 warfarin therapy following initiation of 5-Fluorouracil regimes.
  Concurrent administration of 5-Fluorouracil and phenytoin may result in increased serum levels of
 phenytoin.
  5-Fluorouracil is contraindicated in combination with brivudin, sorivudin and analogues as these are
 potent inhibitors of the 5-Fluorouracil-metabolising enzyme DPD.
  Caution should be taken when using 5-Fluorouracil in conjunction with medications which may affect
 DPD activity.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Saltz LB, Clarke S et al. Bevacizumab in combination with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy as first
 line therapy in metastatic colorectal cancer: a randomized phase III study. et al. J Clin Oncol 2008;
 26: 2013-2019
 2. Krens S D, Lassche,Jansman G F G A, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients
 with renal or hepatic impairment. Lancet Onco/2019;20:e201-08.
 3. NCCP | Bevacizumab Rapid Infusion Rate Guidance V2 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/bevacizumab-rapid-
 infusion-rate-guidance.pdf
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V5 2023. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. HPRA Direct Healthcare Professional Communication. 5-Fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and tegafur
 containing products: Pre-treatment testing to identify DPD-deficient patients at increased risk of
 severe toxicity. Accessed Aug 2020 .Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/docs/default-source/default-
 document-library/important-safety-information-from-marketing-authorisation-holders-of-
 products-containing-5-fluorouracil-(i-v-)-capecitabine-and-tegafur-as-approved-by-the-
 hpra.pdf?sfvrsn=0
 6. Bevacizumab (Avastin ®) Summary of product characteristics. Accessed May 2023 . Available at
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/avastin-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 7. Oxaliplatin (Eloxatin ®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Jan 2023 . Last updated:
 02/12/2022 . Available at: https://www.medicines.ie/medicines/eloxatin-5mg-ml-concentrate-for-
 solution-for-infusion-31983/spc
 8. Fluorouracil 25 mg/ml solution. Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed May 2023 . Available
 at: https://www.medicines.ie/medicines/fluorouracil-25-mg-ml-solution-for-injection-or-infusion-
 32184/spc#tabs
 9. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 10. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 Version Date Amendment Approved By

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 1 23/10/2017 Prof Maccon Keane
 Update of dose modifications of bevacizumab for
 2 22/11/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 proteinuria
 Reviewed. Standardisation of treatment table.
 3 09/10/2019 Update of exclusion criteria, drug interactions, Prof Maccon Keane
 dose modifications, emetogenic potential.
 Standardisation of treatment table. Updated
 exclusions and dose modifications for oxaliplatin
 4 12/02/2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 in renal impairment. Clarified dose modifications
 of bevacizumab for proteinuria.
 5 26/02/2020 Standardisation of treatment table. Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated exclusion criteria, baseline testing, dose
 modifications and adverse events with respect to
 DPD deficiency as per DHPC from HPRA June
 6 01/09/2020 2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated Adverse events regarding palmar-
 plantar erythrodysaesthesia

 Reviewed. Updated bevacizumab dose
 7 10/08/2023 modifications for adverse events Prof Maccon Keane

 Formatting changes and grammatical
 7a 21/11/2023 NCCP
 corrections.
 Additional wording added to baseline testing
 7b 03/03/2025 NCCP
 section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i
 The rapid infusion is an unlicensed means of administration of bevacizumab for the indications described
 above, in Ireland. Patients should be informed of this and consented to treatment in line with the hospital’s
 policy on the use of unlicensed medication and unlicensed or “off label” indications. Prescribers should be
 fully aware of their responsibility in communicating any relevant information to the patient and also ensuring
 that the unlicensed or “off label” means of administration has been acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs
 and Therapeutics Committee, or equivalent, in line with hospital policy.’

NCCP Regimen: Bevacizumab 5mg/kg Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 7b
and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 10/08/2028
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00446 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
