NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy – 14 day
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 Status*
 First line treatment of adult patients with wild-type RAS metastatic C18 00447a N/A
 colorectal cancer (mCRC) C19
 C20
 *This applies to post 2012 indications only

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Treatment is administered once every 14 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Admin Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 Order
 1
 1 1 Panitumumab 6mg/kg IV infusion 100mL 0.9% NaCl over Every 14 days
 60 minutes2using a 0.22
 micron in-line filter
 1In 150mL over 90 minutes if dose > 1000mg

 Final concentration should not exceed 10mg/mL
 2If the first infusion is tolerated, then subsequent infusions may be administered over 30 to 60 minutes

 Panitumumab is incompatible with glucose solutions,
 Ensure IV administration sets are flushed with NaCl 0.9% pre and post administration.
 2 1 Oxaliplatin 85mg/m2 IV infusion 3
 500mL glucose 5% over Every 14 days
 2 hours
 3 1 Folinic Acid 400mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL glucose 5% over Every 14 days
 (Calcium leucovorin) 2 hours
 4 1 5-Fluorouracil 400mg/m2 IV BOLUS Every 14 days

 5 1 5-Fluorouracil4 2400mg/m2 Continuous Over 46 hours in 0.9% Every 14 days
 IV infusion NaCl.
 3Oxaliplatin is incompatible with 0.9% NaCl. Do not piggyback or flush lines with normal saline.

 For oxaliplatin doses ≤ 104mg use 250mL glucose 5%.
 Increase infusion rate time to 4 – 6 hours in case of laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia reaction.
 Oxaliplatin administration must always precede the administration of 5-Fluorouracil
 Oxaliplatin may be given at the same time as Folinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) using a Y connector.
 Folinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) must be administered prior to 5-Fluorouracil. It enhances the effects of 5-Fluorouracil by increasing 5-Fluorouracil
 binding to the target enzyme thymidylate synthetase.
 Acute neurotoxicity is common with oxaliplatin and can be precipitated on exposure to the cold therefore in this regimen patients should NOT suck on
 ice chips during the bolus injection of 5-Fluorouracil.
 4 See dose modifications section for patients with identified partial dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency.

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  Wild type RAS tumours verified by a validated test method
  ECOG 0-2
  Adequate marrow reserve
  Adequate renal and liver function

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to panitumumab, oxaliplatin, folinic acid, 5-Fluorouracil or to any of the
 excipients
  Patients with mutant RAS mCRC or unknown RAS mCRC status
  Patients with interstitial pneumonitis or pulmonary fibrosis
  Renal impairment
  Hepatic impairment
  Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  DPD testing prior to first treatment with 5-Fluorouracil using phenotype and/or genotype
 testing unless patient has been previously tested
 o In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, blood uracil levels used for
 dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) phenotyping should be interpreted with caution,
 as impaired kidney function can lead to increased uracil blood levels. Consequently, there
 is an increased risk for incorrect diagnosis of DPD deficiency, which may result in under
 dosing of 5-Fluorouracil or other fluoropyrimidines, leading to reduced treatment
 efficacy. Genotype testing for DPD deficiency should be considered for patients with renal
 impairment.

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each treatment
  Post treatment: monthly electrolytes, magnesium, calcium for 2 months after last
 panitumumab treatment.

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:

  Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency
 o Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment
 o In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Panitumumab or Modified FOLFOX-6 therapy may be delayed independently of each other
 and dosing may continue with either component but consideration should be given to the
 timings of further treatment
  The following dose reductions should be used when calculating FOLFOX dose reductions for
 patients with toxicities (Table 1)

 Table 1: Dose Reduction Levels of Modified FOLFOX-6 for All Toxicity
 Dose Level 0 Dose Level -1 Dose Level -2 Dose Level -3
 Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 65 mg/m2 50 mg/m2 Discontinue
 2 2
 Folinic Acid 400 mg/m 400 mg/m 400 mg/m2 Discontinue
 (Calcium
 Leucovorin)
 5-Fluorouracil 400 mg/m2 320 mg/m2 260 mg/m2 Discontinue
 bolus
 5-Fluorouracil 2400 mg/m2 1900 mg/m2 1500 mg/m2 Discontinue
 infusion
 Note: Folinic acid is delayed or omitted if bolus 5-Fluorouracil is delayed or omitted

 Haematological:
 Table 2: Dose Modifications of Modified FOLFOX-6 for Haematological Toxicity
 TOXICITY Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Prior to a Cycles (DAY 1) Grade ANC Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
 (x 109/L)
  If ANC< 1.5 on Day 1 of cycle, hold 1 ≥ 1.5 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 treatment, weekly FBC, maximum 2 1.0-1.49 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 of 4 weeks. 3 0.5-0.99  1 dose level Maintain dose level
  ANC ≥ 1.5 within 4 weeks, proceed 4 <0.5  1 dose level Omit bolus and 1
 with treatment at the dose level infusion dose level
 noted across from the lowest ANC
 result of the delayed week(s).
  If ANC remains <1.5 after 4 weeks
 discontinue treatment.

 Grade Platelets Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
 (x109/L)
  If platelets < 75 on Day 1 of cycle, 1 ≥ 75 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 hold treatment, weekly FBC, 2 50-74.9 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 maximum of 4 weeks. 3 10-49.9  1 dose level Maintain dose level
  Platelets ≥ 75 within 4 weeks, 4 <10  2 dose levels Maintain dose level
 proceed with treatment at the

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 dose level noted across from the
 lowest platelets result of the
 delayed week(s).
  If platelets remain <75 after 4
 weeks discontinue treatment.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Dose Modifications in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal impairment Hepatic impairment
 Panitumumab No studies have been performed No studies have been performed in patients with hepatic
 in patients with renal impairment. impairment.
 Oxaliplatin CrCl (ml/min) Dose Little information available.
 ≥30 Treat at normal Probably no dose reduction necessary: Clinical decision
 dose and
 monitor renal
 function
 <30 contraindicated
 5-Fluorouracil Consider dose reduction in severe Bilirubin AST Dose
 renal impairment only (micromol/L)
 <85 <180 100%
 >85 or >180 Contraindicated
 Clinical decision.
 Moderate hepatic impairment; reduce initial dose by 1/3.
 Severe hepatic impairment, reduce initial dose by 1/2.
 Increase dose if no toxicity.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 4: Dose modification schedule of panitumumab based on skin reactions.
 Occurrence of skin Administration of Outcome Dose regulation
 symptom(s): ≥ grade 3 panitumumab
 Initial occurrence Hold 1 or 2 doses Improved (< grade 3) Continue infusion at 100% original dose
 Not recovered Discontinue
 2nd occurrence Hold 1 or 2 doses Improved (< grade 3) Continue infusion at 80% of original
 dose
 Not recovered Discontinue
 3rd occurrence Hold 1 or 2 doses Improved (< grade 3) Continue infusion at 60% of original
 dose
 Not recovered Discontinue
 4th occurrence Discontinue

 Local skin care policy for the prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions should
 be instigated as appropriate.

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 5: Dose modification schedule based on adverse events
 Adverse reaction Recommended dose modification
 Panitumumab
 Decrease infusion rate of panitumumab and maintain lower rate for
 Infusion reaction
 subsequent infusions
 Severe infusion reaction Discontinue
 Interstitial lung disease Discontinue
 Oxaliplatin
 *Peripheral neuropathy
 Grade 2 present at start of cycle Reduce oxaliplatin by 1 dose level
 Grade 3 
  First occurrence  1 dose level
  2nd occurrence 1 dose level
  Persistent Discontinue oxaliplatin
 Grade 4 Discontinue oxaliplatin

 Laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia Increase infusion time from 2 to 6 hrs
 Stomatitis Delay treatment until stomatitis reaches level of grade 1 or less
 Unexplained respiratory symptoms Discontinue oxaliplatin until interstitial disease or pulmonary fibrosis
 e.g. Non-productive cough, excluded.
 dyspnoea, crackles or radiological
 pulmonary infiltrates
 *Neuropathy may be partially or wholly reversible after discontinuation of therapy; patients with good recovery from Grade 3 (not
 Grade 4) neuropathy may be considered for re- challenge with oxaliplatin, with starting dose one level below that which they were
 receiving when neuropathy developed.

 Table 6: Dose modification of mFOLFOX-6 for diarrhoea
 TOXICITY Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Prior to a Cycles (DAY 1) Grade Diarrhoea Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
  If diarrhoea greater than 1 Increase of 2-3 stools/day, Maintain dose Maintain dose level
 or equal to Grade 2 on or mild increase in loose level
 Day 1 of cycle, hold watery colostomy output
 treatment. Perform 2 Increase of 4-6 stools, or Maintain dose Maintain dose level
 weekly checks, nocturnal stools or mild level
 maximum 4 times. increase in loose watery
  If diarrhoea is less than colostomy output
 Grade 2 within 4 weeks, 3 Increase of 7-9 stools/day or Maintain dose 1 dose level
 proceed with treatment incontinence, level of IV push and
 at the dose level noted malabsorption; or severe infusional 5-
 across from the highest increase in loose watery Fluorouracil
 Grade experienced. colostomy output
  If diarrhoea remains 4 Increase of 10 or more  1 dose level 1 dose level
 greater than or equal to stools/day or grossly bloody of IV push and
 Grade 2 after 4 weeks, colostomy output or loose infusional 5-
 discontinue treatment. watery colostomy output Fluorouracil
 requiring parenteral
 support; dehydration
NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

 Oxaliplatin Moderate (Refer to local policy).
 5-Fluorouracil Low (Refer to local policy).
 Panitumumab Low (Refer to local policy).

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required unless the patient has had a previous hypersensitivity.

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 See local skin care policy for the prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions.
 Anti-diarrhoeal treatment may be required (Refer to local policy).

 ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
 The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
 details.

  Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated
 aggressively.

 Panitumumab
  Infusion-related reactions:
 o In cases of mild or moderate infusion-related reaction, the infusion rate may be decreased and
 maintained at the lower rate in all subsequent infusions.
 o Occurrence of a severe infusion-related reaction requires immediate and permanent
 discontinuation of panitumumab therapy and may necessitate emergency treatment.
 o Hypersensitivity reactions occurring more than 24 hours after infusion have been reported.
 Patients should be warned of the possibility of such a late onset and instructed to contact their
 physician if symptoms occur.
  Respiratory disorders: Interstitial lung disease (ILD) has been observed with EGRF inhibitors.
 Treatment should be withheld in the event of onset or worsening respiratory symptoms. If ILD is
 confirmed, treatment should be discontinued.
  Acute renal failure: This has been observed in patients who develop severe diarrhoea and
 dehydration.
  Skin reactions: This is the main adverse reaction of panitumumab. Refer to local policy for skin care
 regime and to Table 4 under Dose Modifications for management of treatment if patient experiences
 skin reactions.
  Electrolyte disturbances: Hypomagnesaemia, hypokalaemia or hypocalcaemia may occur. Electrolyte
 repletion is recommended, as appropriate.
  Ocular toxicities: Patients presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of keratitis such as acute or
 worsening: eye inflammation, lacrimation, light sensitivity, blurred vision, eye pain and/or red eye
 should be referred promptly to an ophthalmology specialist. If a diagnosis of ulcerative keratitis is

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 confirmed, treatment should be interrupted or discontinued. If keratitis is diagnosed, the benefits and
 risks of continuing treatment should be carefully considered.

 Oxaliplatin
  Platinum Hypersensitivity: Special surveillance should be ensured for patients with a history of allergic
 manifestations to other products containing platinum. In case of anaphylactic manifestations the
 infusion should be interrupted immediately and an appropriate symptomatic treatment started. Re-
 administration of oxaliplatin to such patients is contraindicated.
  Laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia: An acute syndrome of laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia occurs in
 1-2% of patients and is characterised by subjective sensations of dysphagia or dyspnoea/feeling of
 suffocation, without any objective evidence of respiratory distress (no cyanosis or hypoxia) or of
 laryngospasm or bronchospasm. Symptoms are often precipitated by exposure to cold. Although
 antihistamines and bronchodilators have been administered in such cases, the symptoms are rapidly
 reversible even in the absence of treatment. Prolongation of the infusion helps to reduce the incidence
 of this syndrome.
  Haemolytic Ureamic Syndrome (HUS): Oxaliplatin therapy should be interrupted if HUS is suspected:
 hematocrit is less than 25%, platelets less than 100,000 and creatinine greater than or equal to 135
 micromol/L. If HUS is confirmed, oxaliplatin should be permanently discontinued.
  Extravasation: Oxaliplatin causes irritation if extravasated (Refer to local policy).

 5-Fluorouracil
  Gastrointestinal toxicity: Patients treated with 5-Fluorouracil should be closely monitored for diarrhea
 and managed appropriately.
  Myocardial ischaemia and angina: Cardiotoxicity is a serious complication during treatment with 5-
 Fluorouracil. Patients, especially those with a prior history of cardiac disease or other risk factors,
 treated with 5-Fluorouracil, should be carefully monitored during therapy.
  DPD deficiency: DPD is an enzyme encoded by the DPYD gene which is responsible for the breakdown
 of fluoropyrimidines. Patients with DPD deficiency are therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidine-
 related toxicity, including for example stomatitis, diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and
 neurotoxicity. Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil, capecitabine or tegafur-containing medicinal products
 is contraindicated in patients with known complete DPD deficiency. Consider a reduced starting dose
 in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency. Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of
 treatment. In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of 5-Fluorouracil may improve clinical outcomes in
 patients receiving continuous 5-Fluorouracil infusions.
  Hand-foot syndrome (HFS): HFS, also known as palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE) has been
 reported as an unusual complication of high dose bolus or protracted continuous therapy for 5-
 Fluorouracil.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  No formal drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with panitumumab.
  Panitumumab should not be administered in combination with IFL chemotherapy or with
 bevacizumab-containing chemotherapy.
  Marked elevations of prothrombin time and INR have been reported in patients stabilized on warfarin
 therapy following initiation of 5-Fluorouracil regimens.

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Concurrent administration of 5-Fluorouracil and phenytoin may result in increased serum levels of
 phenytoin.
  5-Fluorouracil is contraindicated in combination with brivudin, sorivudin and analogues as these are
 potent inhibitors of the 5-Fluorouracil-metabolising enzyme DPD.
  Caution should be taken when using 5-Fluorouracil in conjunction with medications which may affect
 DPD activity.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Douillard, J. Y., S. Siena, J. Cassidy, et al. Randomized, phase III trial of panitumumab with infusional
 fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) versus FOLFOX4 alone as first-line treatment
 inpatients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer: the PRIME study.
 J Clin Oncol 2010; 28(31):4697-4705
 2. Douillard, JY, Oliner KS, Siena S, et al. Panitumumab-FOLFOX4 treatment and RAS mutations in
 colorectal cancer. N Engl J Med 2013; 369(11):1023-1034.
 3. Krens S D, Lassche,Jansman G F G A, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients
 with renal or hepatic impairment. Lancet Onco/2019; 20:e201-08.
 4. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 5. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 6. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V3 2021 Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 7. HPRA Direct Healthcare Professional Communication. 5-Fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and tegafur
 containing products: Pre-treatment testing to identify DPD-deficient patients at increased risk of
 severe toxicity. Accessed Aug 2020 Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/docs/default-source/default-
 document-library/important-safety-information-from-marketing-authorisation-holders-of-
 products-containing-5-fluorouracil-(i-v-)-capecitabine-and-tegafur-as-approved-by-the-
 hpra.pdf?sfvrsn=0
 8. Panitumumab (VECTIBIX®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 11/09/2018.
 Accessed Nov 2021. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/vectibix-epar-product-information_en.pdf
 9. Oxaliplatin (Eloxatin®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Nov 2021. Last updated:
 23/04/2019. Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0540-
 148-001_23042019151332.pdf
 10. 5-Fluorouracil 50 mg/ml solution. Summary of Product Characteristics. HPRA last updated:
 16/04/2021. Accessed: Nov 2021. Available
 at:https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2315-091-
 001_16042021165722.pdf

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 23/10/2017 Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Standardisation of treatment table.
 Update of eligibility criteria, drug interactions,
 2 09/10/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 emetogenic potential. Removal of company
 support resources.
 Standardisation of treatment table.Updated Prof Maccon Keane
 3 12/02/2020 exclusions. Updated recommended dose
 modifications for oxaliplatin in renal impairment.

 Standardisation of treatment table. Update of
 4 26/02/2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 diluent of Folinic Acid to glucose 5%

 Updated exclusion criteria, baseline testing, dose
 modifications and adverse events with respect to
 DPD deficiency as per DHPC from HPRA June 2020
 5 01/09/2020 Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated Adverse events regarding palmar-
 plantar erythrodysaesthesia

 Reviewed. Added to exclusions and adverse
 6 21/12/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 effects.
 6a 21/11/2023 Formatting changes and grammatical corrections. NCCP
 Additional wording added to baseline testing
 6b 03/03/2025 NCCP
 section

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Panitumumab 6mg/kg and Published: 23/10/2017 Version number: 6b
Modified FOLFOX-6 Therapy– 14day Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00447 Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
