NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Plerixafor and G-CSF Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Is indicated in combination with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G- 00536a N/A
 CSF) to enhance mobilisation of haematopoietic stem cells to the peripheral C85
 blood for collection and subsequent autologous transplantation in adult C90
 patients with lymphoma and multiple myeloma whose cells mobilise poorly
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Plerixafor is administered by subcutaneous injection 11 hours (+/- 1hour) prior to initiation of each
 apheresis following 4 day pre-treatment with G-CSF. A total of up to 3 doses of plerixafor is
 recommended.

 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle
 1 G-CSF 10mcg/kg SC Given in the morning from Day 1 onwards until harvest
 onwards (round to nearest whole complete
 syringe)
 a
 4 Plerixafor 20mg SC
 Given in evening (with initiation of apheresis on morning of
 onwards day 5 (11 hours (+/- 1 hour) later)b. Continue to administer
 each night if required, until harvest complete. This should
 be to a maximum of 3 doses.
 a
 A flat dose of 20mg is recommended for patients weighing 65-83kg
 A dose of 0.24mg/kg is recommended for patients weighing <65kg or > 83kg
 The dose should not exceed 40mg/day
 The weight used to calculate the dose of plerixafor should be obtained within 1 week before the first dose of plerixafor.
 Plerixafor dose and treatment of patients weighing more than 175% of ideal body weight have not been investigated.
 Ideal body weight can be determined using the following equations:
 o Male (kg): 50 + 2.3 x ((Height (cm) x 0.394) – 60)
 o Female (kg): 45.5 + 2.3 x ((Height (cm) x 0.394) – 60)
 b
 Treatment can be given up to 16 hours prior to collection at discretion of prescribing consultant. This would facilitate
 administration on the day ward prior to collection

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indication as above

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to plerixafor or any of the excipients

NCCP Regimen: Plerixafor and G-CSF Published: 23/11/2018
 Version number: 4
Therapy Date Last Reviewed: 01/03/2021
Tumour Group:Plasma Cell Disorders IHS contributor: Dr Kamal Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00536
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Haematologist working in the area of
 haematological malignancies
 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal and CD34 count daily

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 1: Dose modification of plerixafor in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose No information available
 20-50 Reduce dose by 1/3 to 0.16mg/kg
 < 20 or Insufficient clinical experience to make dose
 haemodialysis recommendations
 Based on increasing exposure with increasing body weight the dose should
 not exceed 27 mg/day if the creatinine clearance is lower than 50 ml/min

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Plerixafor : Minimal (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information
 is available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: None

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations

NCCP Regimen: Plerixafor and G-CSF Published: 23/11/2018
 Version number: 4
Therapy Date Last Reviewed: 01/03/2021
Tumour Group:Plasma Cell Disorders IHS contributor: Dr Kamal Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00536
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
 • Haematological effects: Administration of plerixafor in conjunction with G-CSF increases circulating
 leukocytes as well as haematopoietic stem cell populations. White blood cell counts should be
 monitored during plerixafor therapy. Clinical judgment should be exercised when administering
 plerixafor to patients with peripheral blood neutrophil counts above 50 x 109 /L. Thrombocytopenia
 is a known complication of apheresis and has been observed in patients receiving plerixafor. Platelet
 counts should be monitored in all patients receiving plerixafor and undergoing apheresis.
 • Allergic reactions: Plerixafor has been uncommonly associated with potential systemic reactions
 related to subcutaneous injection such as urticaria, periorbital swelling, dyspnoea, or hypoxia
 Symptoms responded to treatments (e.g., antihistamines, corticosteroids, hydration or
 supplemental oxygen) or resolved spontaneously. Cases of anaphylactic reactions, including
 anaphylactic shock, have been reported from world-wide post-marketing experience. Appropriate
 precautions should be taken because of the potential for these reactions.
 • Spleen size: The effect of plerixafor on spleen size in patients has not been specifically evaluated in
 clinical studies. Cases of splenic enlargement and/or rupture have been reported following the
 administration of plerixafor in conjunction with growth factor G-CSF. Individuals receiving plerixafor
 in conjunction with G-CSF who report left upper abdominal pain and/or scapular or shoulder pain
 should be evaluated for splenic integrity.
 • Other adverse effects include gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, flatulence and vomiting,
 headache, arthralgia, dizziness and insomnia (patients should be advised against driving).

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Duarte et al. Plerixafor plus granulocyte CSF can mobilize hematopoietic stem cells from multiple
 myeloma and lymphoma patients failing previous mobilization attempts: EU compassionate use
 data. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2011 46(1):52-8.
 2. Micallef IN et al. Successful stem cell remobilization using plerixafor (mozobil) plus granulocyte
 colony-stimulating factor in patients with non-hodgkin lymphoma: results from the plerixafor NHL
 phase 3 study rescue protocol. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2009; 15(12):1578-1586.
 3. Stover et al. Evaluation of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Mobilisation Rates with Early Plerixafor
 Administration for Adult Stem Cell transplantation. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant 2017 Aug;
 23(8):1290-1294
 4. Plerixafor (Mozobil®) Summary of Product characteristics Accessed November 2023 .Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/documents/product-information/mozobil-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 From 20/05/2026, this regimen will be reviewed on an ‘As Required’ basis. Please refer to the
 version control box for information, and the footer for date of last review. If you wish to suggest
 any updates to this regimen, please contact oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
NCCP Regimen: Plerixafor and G-CSF Published: 23/11/2018
 Version number: 4
Therapy Date Last Reviewed: 01/03/2021
Tumour Group:Plasma Cell Disorders IHS contributor: Dr Kamal Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00536
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 1 23/11/2018 Dr Kamal Fadalla
 2 01/03/2020 Reviewed Dr Kamal Fadalla
 Reviewed. Added footnote to
 3 23/10/2023 treatment table regarding extended Dr Kamal Fadalla
 administration time.
 20/05/2026 Amendment to review schedule. NCCP
 4 Addition of links in emetogenic
 potential section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Plerixafor and G-CSF Published: 23/11/2018
 Version number: 4
Therapy Date Last Reviewed: 01/03/2021
Tumour Group:Plasma Cell Disorders IHS contributor: Dr Kamal Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00536
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
