NCCP National SACT Regimen

 5-Fluorouracil (5 day) and mitoMYcin Chemoradiation
 Therapy
INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Reimbursement
 Status*
 Treatment of muscle invasive bladder cancer in patients C67 00450a N/A
 *This applies to post 2012 indications only

TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 mitoMYcin is administered at a dose of 12mg/m2 on day 1 only.
 5-Fluorouracil is administered at a dose of 500mg/m²/day on days 1–5 (week 1) and days 22-26 (week 4)
 corresponding to fractions 1-5 and 16-20 of radiotherapy for 1 cycle.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Route and Method of
 Day Drug Dose Diluent & Rate
 Administration
 1 mitoMYcin 12mg/m2 IV Bolus Via fast running
 NaCl 0.9% infusion
 1-5, 5-Fluorouracila 500mg/m2/day Continuous IV infusion
 Infusor pump
 22-26 (Total dose = 2500mg/m2 over 120 hours) over 5 days
 aSee dose modifications section for patients with identified partial dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG status 0-2

EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to 5-Fluorouracil, mitoMYcin or any of the excipients
  Pregnancy
  Breast Feeding
  Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency

PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 NCCP Regimen: 5-Fluorouracil (5 day) and Published: 17/11/2017
 Version number: 4c
 mitoMYcin Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 21/12/2026
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00450
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  DPD testing prior to first treatment with 5-Fluorouracil using phenotype and/or genotype
 testing unless patient has been previously tested
 o In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, blood uracil levels used for
 dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) phenotyping should be interpreted with caution, as
 impaired kidney function can lead to increased uracil blood levels. Consequently, there is an
 increased risk for incorrect diagnosis of DPD deficiency, which may result in under dosing of 5-
 Fluorouracil or other fluoropyrimidines, leading to reduced treatment efficacy. Genotype testing
 for DPD deficiency should be considered for patients with renal impairment.

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile weekly throughout treatment

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency
  Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment
  In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant

Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose Modification for Haematological toxicity
 ANC (x 109/L) Platelets (x 109/L) Dose Modification
 (on day of chemotherapy) (at any stage during cycle)
 ≥1 and ≥ 100 100%
 0.5-0.99 or 50-99 Delay treatment until recovery
 <0.5 or <50 Delay treatment until recovery and
 Febrile neutropenia consider reducing 5-Fluorouracil by
 25% for subsequent cycles

 NCCP Regimen: 5-Fluorouracil (5 day) and Published: 17/11/2017
 Version number: 4c
 mitoMYcin Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 21/12/2026
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00450
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose Modification in Renal and Hepatic Impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 5-Fluorouracil Consider dose reduction in severe renal Bilirubin AST Dose
 impairment only <85 <180 100%
 >85 or >180 CI
 Clinical decision. Moderate hepatic impairment;
 reduce initial dose by 1/3.
 Severe hepatic impairment, reduce initial dose by 1/2.
 Increase dose if no toxicity.
 mitoMYcin CrCl (mL/min) Dose Dose reductions probably not necessary – clinical
 >10 100% decision when AST levels > 2 x ULN.
 <10 75%
 Consider a dose reduction for high doses
 of mitoMYcin when CrCl 10-60mL/min.

Non-Haematological Toxicity:
 Table 3: Dose modification of 5-Fluorouracil for adverse events
 Adverse Event Dose modification of 5-Fluorouracil
 Diarrhoea or Mucositis
 Grade 2 Delay treatment until toxicity has resolved to Grade 1 or less
 Grade ≥ 3 Delay treatment until toxicity has resolved to Grade 1 or less and reduce
 5-Fluorouracil by 50% for subsequent cycles.

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
5-Fluorouracil Low (Refer to local policy).
mitoMYcin Low (Refer to local policy).

PREMEDICATIONS: Not required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Anti-diarrhoeal treatment (Refer to local policy).
Mouth Care (Refer to local policy).

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full details
  Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated appropriately.

 mitoMYcin
  Extravasation: mitoMYcin causes pain and tissue necrosis if extravasated (Refer to local policy).

 5-Fluorouracil
  Myocardial ischaemia and angina: Cardiotoxicity is a serious complication during treatment with 5-
 Fluorouracil. Patients, especially those with a prior history of cardiac disease or other risk factors, treated

 NCCP Regimen: 5-Fluorouracil (5 day) and Published: 17/11/2017
 Version number: 4c
 mitoMYcin Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 21/12/2026
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00450
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 with 5-Fluorouracil, should be carefully monitored during therapy.
 DPD deficiency: DPD is an enzyme encoded by the DPYD gene which is responsible for the breakdown of
 fluoropyrimidines. Patients with DPD deficiency are therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidine-
 related toxicity, including for example stomatitis, diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and
 neurotoxicity. Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil, capecitabine or tegafur-containing medicinal products is
 contraindicated in patients with known complete DPD deficiency. Consider a reduced starting dose in
 patients with identified partial DPD deficiency. Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of
 treatment. In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful monitoring.
 Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of 5-Fluorouracil may improve clinical outcomes in patients receiving
 continuous 5-Fluorouracil infusions.
 Hand-foot syndrome (HFS), also known as palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE) has been reported
 as an unusual complication of high dose bolus or protracted continuous therapy for 5-Fluorouracil.
DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Marked elevations of prothrombin time and INR have been reported in patients stabilized on warfarin
 therapy following initiation of 5-Fluorouracil regimes.
  Concurrent administration of 5-Fluorouracil and phenytoin may result in increased serum levels of
 phenytoin
  5-Fluorouracil is contraindicated in combination with brivudin, sorivudin and analogues as these are potent
 inhibitors of the 5-Fluorouracil metabolising enzyme DPD.
  Caution should be taken when using 5-Fluorouracil in conjunction with medications which may affect DPD
 activity.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. James ND, Hussain SA, Hall E. et al. Radiotherapy with or without Chemotherapy in Muscle-Invasive
 Bladder Cancer.N Engl J Med; 2012;366;16: 1477-88.
 2. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network
 3. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V3 2021. Available at:https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. HPRA Direct Healthcare Professional Communication. 5-Fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and tegafur
 containing products: Pre-treatment testing to identify DPD-deficient patients at increased risk of severe
 toxicity. Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/docs/default-source/default-document-library/important-
 safety-information-from-marketing-authorisation-holders-of-products-containing-5-fluorouracil-(i-v-)-
 capecitabine-and-tegafur-as-approved-by-the-hpra.pdf?sfvrsn=0
 6. mitoMYcin-C Kyowa 10 mg. SmPC HPRA. Last updated: 20/02/2019. Accessed: Nov 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Final_PA2288-002-001_20022019120937.pdf
 7. Fluorouracil 50 mg/ml Solution for Injection or Infusion SmPC HPRA. Last updated: 08/12/2020.
 Accessed Nov 2021. Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2315-
 091-001_16042021165722.pdf

 NCCP Regimen: 5-Fluorouracil (5 day) and Published: 17/11/2017
 Version number: 4c
 mitoMYcin Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 21/12/2026
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 5
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00450
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 15/11/2017 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 06/11/2019 Reviewed. Updated exclusions, Prof Maccon Keane
 emetogenic potential and drug
 interactions.
 3 01/09/2020 Updated exclusion criteria, baseline Prof Maccon Keane
 testing, dose modifications and adverse
 events with respect to DPD deficiency as
 per DHPC from HPRA June 2020
 Updated Adverse events regarding
 palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia

 4 21/12/2021 Reviewed. Prof Maccon Keane
 4b 23/11/2023 Formatting changes and grammatical NCCP
 corrections.
 4c 03/03/2025 Additional wording added to baseline NCCP
 testing section.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: 5-Fluorouracil (5 day) and Published: 17/11/2017
 Version number: 4c
mitoMYcin Chemoradiation Therapy Review: 21/12/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00450
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
