NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Dacarbazine Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status
 Treatment of metastatic malignant melanoma C43 00464a N/A
 * This applies to post 2012 indications.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Dacarbazine is administered on day 1 of a 21 day cycle for 6 cycles or until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity develops, whichever is first.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 1 Dacarbazine 850mg/m2 IV infusion 1000mL NaCl 0.9% over 1 hour Every 21 days
 Dacarbazine is sensitive to light exposure. All reconstituted solutions should be suitably protected from light also during administration (light-resistant
 infusion set)
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to dacarbazine or to any of the excipients
  Pregnancy or breastfeeding
  Leukopenia and/or thrombocytopenia
  Severe liver or kidney diseases.

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile

 Published: 16/02/2018
NCCP Regimen: Dacarbazine Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 15/04/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Fergal Kelleher

NCCP Regimen Code: 00464
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modification of dacarbazine in haematological toxicity
 9 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets (x10 /L) Dose
 <1.5 or <100 Delay for 1 week. Repeat FBC, if within normal
 parameters resume treatment with 100% dose.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modifications in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 CrCl (mL/min) Dose Can be hepatotoxic.
 45-60 80% Consider dose reduction.
 30-45 75%
 <30 70%
 Renal and hepatic dose modifications taken from North London Cancer Network

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL
  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

 Dacarbazine: High (Refer to local policy).

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
 available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 Published: 16/02/2018
NCCP Regimen: Dacarbazine Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 15/04/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Fergal Kelleher

NCCP Regimen Code: 00464
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 PREMEDICATIONS: None usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations

 ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for details.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Chapman PB, Einhorn LH, Meyers ML, et al. Phase III multicenter randomized trial of the Dartmouth
 regimen versus dacarbazine in patients with metastatic melanoma. J Clin Oncol 1999;2745-51.
 2. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
 3. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
 4. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V6 2025. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 5. Dacarbazine (medac®)100mg powder for solution Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed April
 2025. Available at: https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/19326/LicenseSPC_PA0623-003-
 001_25052012160128.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 16/02/2018 Dr Fergal Kelleher
 2 01/05/2020 Reviewed. Dr Fergal Kelleher
 Regimen reviewed.Regimen updated
 3 15/04/2025 Dr Fergal Kelleher
 in line with NCCP standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 16/02/2018
NCCP Regimen: Dacarbazine Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 15/04/2030
Tumour Group: Skin/Melanoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Fergal Kelleher

NCCP Regimen Code: 00464
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
