NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Degarelix Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of adult male patients with advanced hormone-dependent C61 00481a N/A
 prostate cancer
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Degarelix 240mg is administered as two consecutive subcutaneous (SC) injections of 120mg each on day
 1. The first maintenance dose of degarelix 80mg is administered 28 days after the starting dose and
 continued every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Day Drug Dose Route Cycle
 a
 1 Degarelix 240mg SC 1 only
 1 Degarelix 80mg SC 2 onwards
 a Degarelix 240mg is administered as two consecutive SC injections of 120mg each

 Degarelix is administered as a SC injection in the abdominal region. The injection site should vary periodically. Injections should be given in areas where
 the patient will not be exposed to pressure e.g. not close to waistband or belt and not close to the ribs

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indication as above

 CAUTIONS:
  Androgen deprivation therapy may prolong the QT interval. In patients with a history of or
 risk factors for QT prolongation over 450 msec, and in patients receiving concomitant
 medicinal products that might prolong the QT interval, physicians should assess the benefit
 risk ratio including the potential for Torsade de pointes prior to initiating treatment.

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to degarelix or any of the excipients

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant with expertise in the treatment of prostate
 carcinoma.

 Published: 30/05/2018
NCCP Regimen: Degarelix Therapy-12 weeks Version number: 3
 Review: 30/07/2030
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00481
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPcSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Bone profile
  Blood glucose

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile as clinically indicated
  Blood glucose and bone profile as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  No recommended dose modifications.

 Table 1: Dose modification of degarelix in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Mild No dose modification necessary Mild No dose modification necessary
 Moderate Moderate
 Severe No information. Caution advised Severe Has not been studied. Caution advised

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website

Degarelix: Minimal (Refer to local policy)

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS: None

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
Calcium and vitamin D supplementation (Refer to local policy)

ADVERSE EFFECTS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

 Published: 30/05/2018
NCCP Regimen: Degarelix Therapy-12 weeks Version number: 3
 Review: 30/07/2030
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00481
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPcSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Klotz L, Boccon-Gibod L, Shore ND, et al. The efficacy and safety of degarelix: a 12-month,
 comparative, randomized, open-label, parallel-group phase III study in patients with prostate
 cancer. BJU Int 2008;102(11):1531-1538.
 2. Degarelix (FIRMAGON ®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 10/01/2020 Accessed
 May 2025. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/firmagon-epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 30/05/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 27/05/2020 Reviewed. Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Regimen updated in line
 3 30//07/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 with NCCP Standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 30/05/2018
NCCP Regimen: Degarelix Therapy-12 weeks Version number: 3
 Review: 30/07/2030
Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00481
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPcSACTregimens
