NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Triptorelin 3mg Therapy- 28 day
INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of locally advanced or metastatic hormone dependent advanced C61 00489a N/A
 prostate cancer.
 * This applies to post 2012 indications

TREATMENT:
Triptorelin 3mg is administered once every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1 Triptorelin 3mg IM n/a Every 28 days

ELIGIBILITY:
  Indication as above

CAUTION:
  History of or risk factors for QT prolongation and in patients receiving concomitant medicinal
 products that might prolong the QT interval
  As sole treatment in prostate cancer patients with spinal cord compression or evidence of spinal
 metastases

EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to triptorelin or any of the excipients

PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant with expertise in the treatment of prostate carcinoma.

TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Bone profile
  Blood glucose

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile as clinically indicated
  Blood glucose and bone profile as clinically indicated

 Published: 30/05/2018
 NCCP Regimen: Triptorelin 3mg Therapy-28 days Version number: 3
 Review: 14/07/2030
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00489
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.
DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  No recommended dose modifications.

Table 1: Dose modification of triptorelin in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No dose modification necessary No dose modification necessary
 Recommendations as per SPC previously agreed NCCP regimens

SUPPORTIVE CARE:

EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

Triptorelin: Minimal (Refer to local policy)

PREMEDICATIONS: None

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: Calcium and vitamin D supplementation (Refer to local policy)

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Triptorelin (DECAPEPTYL®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 28/03/2025.Accessed
 May 2025. Available at: https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/31847/Licence_PPA0465-261-
 001_27032025162402.pdf

Version Date Amendment Approved By
1 30/05/2018 Prof Maccon Keane
2 27/05/2020 Reviewed. Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Updated in line with
3 14/07/2025 Prof Maccon Keane
 NCCP standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 30/05/2018
 NCCP Regimen: Triptorelin 3mg Therapy-28 days Version number: 3
 Review: 14/07/2030
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

 NCCP Regimen Code: 00489
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
