NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Irinotecan and Temozolomide Therapy- 21 days
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory Ewing’s sarcomai C41 00504a N/A
 *This applies to post 2012 indications.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Irinotecan and temozolomide are administered on five consecutive days (days 1-5) of a 21 day cycle.
 Treatment should continue for a total of 6 cycles unless the patient experiences disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity develops, whichever occurs first.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 1-5 Temozolomide 100mg/ m2 PO a,b,c, N/A Every 21 days for 6
 cycles
 1-5 Irinotecan 50mg/m2 IV infusion
 100mL NaCl 0.9% over 60 Every 21 days for 6
 minutes cycles
 a
 Temozolomide hard capsules should be administered in the fasting state.
 The capsules must be swallowed whole with a glass of water and must not be opened or chewed.
 If vomiting occurs after the dose is administered, a second dose should not be administered that day.
 b
 Temozolomide should be administered at least one hour prior to irinotecan.
 c
 Temozolomide is commonly available as 5 mg, 20 mg, 100 mg, 140 mg, 180 mg, or 250 mg hard capsules.
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indication as above
  ECOG 0-2
  Adequate haematological, renal and liver status

 CAUTION:
  In patients known to be homozygous for UGT1A1*28 consideration may be given to a reduced
 irinotecan starting dose

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to irinotecan, temozolomide or to one of the excipients
  Chronic inflammatory bowel disease and/or bowel obstruction
NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan and Published: 11/06/2024 Version number: 2
Temozolomide Therapy- 21 days Review: 11/09/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Mark Doherty Page 1 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00504
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of individual
clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is subject to HSE’s
terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Pregnancy and breastfeeding
  Bilirubin > 3 x ULN
  Severe bone marrow failure
  Impaired renal function

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Virology screen - Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBcoreAb)
 *(Regimen Specific Complications for information on Hepatitis B reactivation)

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Table 1: Dose reduction levels for irinotecan and temozolomide
 Irinotecan Temozolomide
 Starting Dose 50mg/m2 100mg/m2
 2
 Level -1 40 mg/m (80%) 80 mg/m2 (80%)
 Level -2 30 mg/m2 (60%) 60 mg/m2 (60%)
 Level-3 Discontinue Discontinue

Haematological:

  Preference should be given to the use of G-CSF support to maintain neutrophil counts rather than
 dose reduction
  If significant toxicity continues despite G-CSF support, see Table 2 below for dose modifications.
 o Significant toxicity is defined by: Haematological recovery (ANC ≥1.0 x 109 /L, platelets ≥75
 x 109 /L) delayed ≥14 days

NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan and Published: 11/06/2024 Version number: 2
Temozolomide Therapy- 21 days Review: 11/09/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Mark Doherty Page 2 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00504
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of individual
clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is subject to HSE’s
terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 2: Dose modification for haematological toxicity
 ANC Platelets Dose
 9 9
 (x10 /L) (x10 /L)
 ≥1 And ≥ 75 100% Dose
 <1 and/or < 75 If haematological recovery delayed for ≥14 days, reduce temozolomide dose by 1
 dose level to Level-1 (see Table 1 above) for next cycle
 Repeated episodes of febrile Reduce temozolomide dose by 1 dose level to Level-1 (see Table 1) for next cycle
 neutropenia Grade ≥ 3 after ≥ 2
 cycles
 Further episodes of toxicity Reduce temozolomide dose further by 1 dose level (to Level-2). If toxicity recurs,
 after reducing by 1 dose level discontinue study treatment

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:

 Table 3: Dose modification in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Irinotecana CrCl (mL/min) Dose Irinotecan is contraindicated in patients with
 bilirubin levels > 3 x ULN
 ≥ 10 No need for dose adjustment is
 expected
 < 10 Start with 50-66% of the original
 dose, increase if tolerated
 Haemodialysis Start with 50-66% of the original
 dose, increase if tolerated

 Temozolomideb CrCl (mL/min) Dose Dose
 ≥ 36 No dose adjustment is needed Child-Pugh A/B No dose adjustment is
 needed
 < 36 No need for dose adjustment is Child-Pugh C No need for dose
 expected adjustment is expected
 Haemodialysis No need for dose adjustment is
 expected
 a Irinotecan (renal - Giraud et al 2023; hepatic as per SPC)
 b Temozolamide (renal and hepatic - Giraud et al 2023)

NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan and Published: 11/06/2024 Version number: 2
Temozolomide Therapy- 21 days Review: 11/09/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Mark Doherty Page 3 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00504
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of individual
clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is subject to HSE’s
terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:

 Table 4: Dose Modification for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Diarrhoea
  Grade ≥ 3 for ≥ 3 days despite symptomatic  Reduce irinotecan dose by 1 dose level to Level-1 for next
 treatment cycle
 
  If diarrhoea ongoing on day 21, delay next cycle for up to 2
 weeks until diarrhoea resolves to < Grade 1
 
 If Grade ≥ 3 diarrhoea persists > 2 weeks despite suitable
 symptomatic treatment, discontinue

  Grade ≥ 3 at reduced dose level (Dose level -1) Reduce irinotecan dose further by 1 dose level to Level-2 for
 next cycle

 If diarrhoea ongoing on day 21, delay next cycle for up to 2
 weeks until diarrhoea resolves to < Grade 1

 If Grade ≥ 3 diarrhoea persists > 2 weeks despite suitable
 symptomatic treatment, discontinue
 Other non-haematological toxicities:
  Grade ≥ 3 Withhold both agents until toxicity resolves to ≤ Grade 2

 If resolved to ≤ grade 2 by day 35 (i.e. after a delay of 1
 week), resume treatment and reduce dose (of the agent
 responsible) by 1 dose level to Level-1
 If neither agent is clearly responsible for toxicity, both to be
 reduced

  Grade ≥ 3 after 1 dose reduction (at Dose level -1) Reduce further by 1 dose level to Level-2
  Grade ≥ 3 after 2 dose reductions (at Dose level -2) Discontinue

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting
 Available on the NCCP website
Irinotecan: Moderate (Refer to local policy)
Temozolomide: Moderate to High (Refer to local policy)

For information:
Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
information is available in the following documents:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan and Published: 11/06/2024 Version number: 2
Temozolomide Therapy- 21 days Review: 11/09/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Mark Doherty Page 4 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00504
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of individual
clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is subject to HSE’s
terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

PREMEDICATIONS:
Prophylactic atropine sulphate.Atropine should not be used in patients with glaucoma.

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Patients should be made aware of the risk of delayed diarrhoea occurring more than 24 hours after
 the administration of irinotecan and at any time before the next cycle
 o As soon as the first liquid stool occurs, the patient should start drinking large volumes of
 beverages containing electrolytes and an appropriate anti-diarrhoeal therapy must be
 initiated immediately
 o The currently recommended anti-diarrhoeal treatment consists of high doses of
 loperamide (4 mg for the first intake and then 2 mg every 2 hours)
 o This therapy should continue for 12 hours after the last liquid stool and should not be
 modified
 o In no instance should loperamide be administered for more than 48 consecutive hours at
 these doses, because of the risk of paralytic ileus, nor for less than 12 hours
 o Noting that cefixime was used in the supporting trial, this agent may be considered in adults
 at a dose of 400 mg orally once daily from day-2 to day +7
  Patients should be warned about the potential for dizziness or visual disturbances which may occur
 within 24 hours following the administration of irinotecan, and advised not to drive or operate
 machinery if these symptoms occur
  PJP prophylaxis required with temozolomide (Refer to local policy)

ADVERSE EFFECTS:
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.

REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:

  Opportunistic infections and reactivation of infections: Opportunistic infections (such as
 Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia) and reactivation of infections (such as HBV, CMV) have been
 observed during the treatment with temozolomide.
  Hepatitis B Virus (HBV): Hepatitis due to HBV reactivation, in some cases resulting in death, has been
 reported. Experts in liver disease should be consulted before treatment is initiated in patients with
 positive hepatitis B serology (including those with active disease). During treatment patients should
 be monitored and managed appropriately.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:

 1. University of Birmingham. rEECur: International Randomised Controlled Trial of Chemotherapy for
 the Treatment of Recurrent and Primary Refractory Ewing Sarcoma [Internet]. Available from:

NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan and Published: 11/06/2024 Version number: 2
Temozolomide Therapy- 21 days Review: 11/09/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Mark Doherty Page 5 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00504
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of individual
clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is subject to HSE’s
terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 https://www.birmingham.ac.uk/Documents/college-mds/trials/crctu/reecur/rEECur-Protocol-
 Version-5.0-03-June-2016.pdf
 2. Blanchette, P., A. Lo., P. Ng et al. 2015. "Irinotecan and temozolomide in adults with recurrent
 sarcoma." Journal of Solid Tumours 5 (2); 105-111.
 3. Wagner, L. M., K. R. Crews, L. C. Iacono, et al. 2004. "Phase I trial of temozolomide and protracted
 irinotecan in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors." Clin Cancer Res 10(3):840-848.
 4. Casey, D. A., L. H. Wexler, M. S. Merchant, et al. 2009. "Irinotecan and temozolomide for Ewing
 sarcoma: the Memorial Sloan-Kettering experience." Pediatr Blood Cancer 53(6):1029-1034.
 5. Wagner, L. M., N. McAllister, R. E. Goldsby, et al. 2007. "Temozolomide and intravenous irinotecan
 for treatment of advanced Ewing sarcoma." Pediatr Blood Cancer 48(2):132-139.
 6. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37269847/
 7. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 8. Irinotecan 20mg/mL Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed July 2025. Available at:
 https://assets.hpra.ie/products/Human/20948/LicenseSPC_PA0749-044-001_27012012163440.pdf
 9. Temozolomide (Temodal®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed July 2025. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/temodal-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 11/06/2024 Dr Mark Doherty
 Regimen reviewed. Addition of
 footnote regarding available
 2 11/09/2025 strengths of capsules. Updated Dr Mark Doherty
 regimen throughout in line with
 NCCP standardisation.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i
 This is an unlicensed indication for the use of irinotecan and temozolomide in Ireland. Patients should be
 informed of this and consented to treatment in line with the hospital’s policy on the use of unlicensed
 medication and unlicensed or “off label” indications. Prescribers should be fully aware of their
 responsibility in communicating any relevant information to the patient and also in ensuring that the
 unlicensed or “off label” indication has been acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs and Therapeutics
 Committee, or equivalent, in line with hospital policy.

NCCP Regimen: Irinotecan and Published: 11/06/2024 Version number: 2
Temozolomide Therapy- 21 days Review: 11/09/2030
Tumour Group: Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Dr Mark Doherty Page 6 of 6
NCCP Regimen Code: 00504
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of individual
clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is subject to HSE’s
terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
