NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 DOCEtaxel 75mg/m2 –Prednisolone Combination Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 In combination with prednisone or prednisolone is C61 00546a Hospital
 indicated for the treatment of patients with hormone
 refractory metastatic prostate cancer

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Treatment administered every 21 days, until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 1 DOCEtaxel 75mg/m2 IV infusion *250ml 0.9% sodium chloride over Repeat every 21 days
 60min
 1-21 Prednisolone 10mg** PO n/a Repeat every 21 days
 inclusive
 *75-185mg dose use 250mL infusion bag. For doses> 185mg use 500mL infusion bag
 Use non-PVC infusion bag.

 ** The dose of prednisolone is either 5mg orally twice daily or 10mg once daily

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to DOCEtaxel or to any of the excipients
  Severe liver impairment
  Baseline neutrophil count < 1.5 x 109 cells/L

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle*
 *See Adverse Effects/Regimen specific complications for guidelines regarding hepatic
 dysfunction

NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel75_prednisolone Published: 28/01/2019
 Version number: 3
combination therapy Review: 28/04/2026
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Keane Page 1 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00546
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed by
 the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modification of DOCEtaxel for haematological toxicity
 ANC (x10 9/L) Dose
 ≥ 1.5 75mg/m2
 0.5 to less than 1.5 Delay treatment until recovery
 Febrile neutropenia or Reduce dose from 75 to 60mg/m2. Discontinue treatment if continues at lower
 <0.5 for more than 1 week dose.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2 : Dose modification of DOCEtaxel in renal and hepatic impairment.
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 No data available in patients with severely Alkaline AST and/or ALT Serum Dose
 impaired renal function Phosphatase Bilirubin
 > 2.5 ULN and > 1.5 ULN 75 mg/m2
 > 6 ULN and/or > 3.5 ULN (AST and > ULN Stop
 and ALT) treatment
 unless strictly
 indicated and
 should be
 discussed with
 a Consultant.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose modification schedule based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 Grade 3 skin reaction Decrease dose to 60mg/m2
 Grade >2 peripheral neuropathy If the patient continues to experience these reactions at 60 mg/m2, the
 Grade 3 or 4 stomatitis treatment should be discontinued

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL: Low (Refer to local policy).

NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel75_prednisolone Published: 28/01/2019
 Version number: 3
combination therapy Review: 28/04/2026
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Keane Page 2 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00546
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 PREMEDICATIONS:
  Premedicate with oral dexamethasone 8 mg, 12 hours, 3 hours and 1 hour before the DOCEtaxel
 infusion.
  Consideration may be given, at the discretion of the prescribing consultant, to the use of a single
 dose of dexamethasone 20mg IV immediately before chemotherapy where patients have missed
 taking the oral premedication dexamethasone as recommended by the manufacturer

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  Prophylactic G-CSF may be used to mitigate the risk of haematological toxicities.

 ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
 The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
  Fluid Retention: Dexamethasone premedication must be given to reduce the incidence and severity
 of fluid retention. It can also reduce the severity of the hypersensitivity reaction.
  Neutropenic Enterocolitis: A number of cases of neutropenic enterocolitis have been reported in
 patients treated with DOCEtaxel in France (5). This is a known and rare side effect of DOCEtaxel
 which may affect up to one in 1,000 people.
  Hypersensitivity Reactions: Patients should be observed closely for hypersensitivity reactions
 especially during the first and second infusions. Hypersensitivity reactions may occur within a few
 minutes following the initiation of the infusion of DOCEtaxel, thus facilities for the treatment of
 hypotension and bronchospasm should be available. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, minor
 symptoms such as flushing or localized cutaneous reactions do not require interruption of therapy.
 However, severe reactions, such as severe hypotension, bronchospasm or generalised rash/erythema
 require immediate discontinuation of DOCEtaxel and appropriate therapy. Patients who have
 developed severe hypersensitivity reactions should not be re-challenged with DOCEtaxel.
  Extravasation: DOCEtaxel causes pain and tissue necrosis if extravasated. (Refer to local extravasation
 guidelines).
  Neutropenia: Most frequent adverse reaction. Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed
 promptly and treated aggressively. DOCEtaxel should be administered when the neutrophil count is >
 1.5x109 cells/L.
  Hepatic Dysfunction: DOCEtaxel undergoes hepatic metabolism. Hepatic dysfunction (particularly
 elevated AST) may lead to increased toxicity and usually requires a dose reduction.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Risk of drug interactions causing increased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inhibitors.
 Patients should also be counselled regarding consumption of grapefruit juice.
  Risk of drug interactions causing decreased concentrations of DOCEtaxel with CYP3A inducers.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Picus J, Schultz M, Cochrane J. A phase II trial of DOCEtaxel in patients with hormone
 refractory prostate cancer. Long term results. Proc Am SocClinOncol, 1999;18a
 (abstract1206).

 NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel75_prednisolone Published: 28/01/2019
 Version number: 3
 combination therapy Review: 28/04/2026
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Keane Page 3 of 4
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00546
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 2. Petrylak DP, Macarthur RB, O’Connor J, et al. Phase I trial of DOCEtaxel with estramustine in
 androgen-independent prostate cancer. J ClinOncol 1999;17:958-67.
 3. Tannock IF, de Wit R, Berry WR, et al. DOCEtaxel plus prednisone or mitoxantrone plus
 prednisone for advanced prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;351(15):1502-12.
 4. Chouhan et al. Single premedication dose of dexamethasone 20mg IV before DOCEtaxel
 administration. J Oncol Pharm Practice 2010;17(3): 155–159
 5. Fatal Neutropenic Enterocolitis With DOCEtaxel in France by Aude Lecrubier. Available at
 http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/876014
 6. Rogers ES et al. Efficacy and safety of a single dose of dexamethasone pre DOCEtaxel
 treatment: The Auckland experience. Annals of Oncology (2014) 25 (suppl_4): iv517-iv541
 7. DOCEtaxel (Taxotere®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed April 2021. Available
 at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/taxotere-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf
 8. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V3 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 29/11/2018 Dr Maccon Keane
 Amended Regular Tests – added frequency of
 2 28/04/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 testing.
 Clarification of requirement for non-PVC
 3 09/09/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 infusion bag only

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: DOCEtaxel75_prednisolone Published: 28/01/2019
 Version number: 3
combination therapy Review: 28/04/2026
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 Keane Page 4 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00546
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
