NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 TivozanibTherapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 Tivozanib for the first line treatment of adult patients with advanced renal C64 00564a CDS -
 cell carcinoma (RCC) and for adult patients who are VEGFR and mTOR 01/10/2019
 pathway inhibitor-naïve following disease progression after one prior
 treatment with cytokine therapy for advanced RCC

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Tivozanib is taken once daily for 21 days followed by a seven day rest period. Each treatment cycle is
 28 days. Treatment is continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle

 1-21 Tivozanib 1340 microgram PO 28 days
 Tivozanib may be taken with or without food. The capsules must be swallowed whole with a glass of water and
 must not be opened.
 In the case of a missed dose or if vomiting occurs, a replacement dose should not be taken.
 The next dose should be taken at the next scheduled time.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  Histologically confirmed RCC with a clear cell component by an approved and validated test
 method
  0-1 prior therapies for metastatic RCC
  ECOG performance status of 0-1
  Adequate organ and haematological function

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to tivozanib or any of the excipients
  Prior VEGF-targeted therapy or mTOR pathway targeted therapy
  Pregnant or lactating females.

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

NCCP Regimen: Tivozanib Published: 01/07/2019
 Version number: 3
Therapy Review: 23/06/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00564
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  Baseline confirmation that the patient’s RCC tumour has a clear cell component by an
 accurate and validated test method
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  ECG
  Electrolyte monitoring (calcium, magnesium, potassium)
  TFTs
  Blood pressure
  Dipstick urinalysis for protein

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  TFTs
  Blood pressure
  Dipstick urinalysis for protein

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
  The occurrence of undesirable effects may require temporary interruption and/or dose
 reduction of tivozanib therapy.
  In the pivotal study, the dose was reduced for grade 3 events and interrupted for grade 4
 events.
  When dose reduction is necessary, the tivozanib dose can be reduced to 890 microgram
 once daily with the normal treatment schedule of 21 days of dosing, followed by a 7-day
 rest period (Table 1).

 Table 1: Tivozanib recommended dose reduction levels
 Dose level Tivozanib
 Recommended starting dose* 1340 microgram
 One dose level reduction 890 microgram
 *Recommended starting dose in moderate hepatic impairment is 1340 microgram on alternative days

 Haematological:
 Table 2: Recommended dose modification of tivozanib in haematological toxicity
 9 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets (x10 /L) Dose
 ≥1.0 And ≥50 100% dose
 0.5-1.0 or 25-50 Reduce dose by one dose reduction
 <0.5 or <25 interrupt dose until recovery to Grade ≥2
 Reduce dose by one dose reduction

NCCP Regimen: Tivozanib Published: 01/07/2019
 Version number: 3
Therapy Review: 23/06/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00564
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Recommended dose modification of tivozanib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Severity Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Mild No dose adjustment is required Use with caution.
 Close monitoring of tolerability advised / monitor for adverse events
 Moderate No dose adjustment is required Reduce starting dose to 1340 microgram on alternate days.
 Use with caution.
 Close monitoring of tolerability advised / monitor for adverse events
 Severe Caution advised due to limited Not recommended
 experience. No data available for
 patients undergoing dialysis

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 4: Recommended dose modification of tivozanib for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactions Severity* Dose modification
 Proteinuria Grade 2 or Grade 3 Reduce dose or interrupt treatment
 Grade 4 Permanent discontinuation of treatment
 Other Grade 1 and 2 Continue treatment at the same dose
 Grade 3
  First occurrence Reduce dose
  Second occurrence Interrupt treatment until the adverse reaction resolves.
 Add supportive care as indicated.
 Re-initiate at a reduced dose
 Grade 4 Interrupt treatment.
 Institute appropriate medical care.
 If adverse reaction resolves to Grade ≤2, re-initiate at a reduced dose.
 * National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [NCI CTCAE]

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL: Minimal to low (Refer to local policy).

PREMEDICATIONS: Not required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
Tivozanib is subject to additional monitoring. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any
suspected adverse reactions.
  Hypertension: Cases of hypertension have been reported in clinical studies with tivozanib.
 Blood pressure should be well controlled prior to initiating tivozanib. In the case of persistent
 hypertension despite use of anti-hypertensive therapy, the tivozanib dose should be reduced, or the
 treatment interrupted and re-initiated at a lower dose once the blood pressure is controlled,
 according to clinical judgment. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered in cases of
 persistent severe hypertension, posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, or other

NCCP Regimen: Tivozanib Published: 01/07/2019
 Version number: 3
Therapy Review: 23/06/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00564
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 complications of hypertension. Patients receiving anti-hypertensive medication should still be
 monitored for hypotension when tivozanib is either interrupted or discontinued.
  Arterial/venous thromboembolic events: Cases of arterial thromboembolic events (ATEs) and
 venous thromboembolic events (VTEs) have occurred in clinical studies with tivozanib. Tivozanib has
 not been studied in patients who had an ATE or VTE within the preceding 6 months of clinical study
 initiation. Tivozanib must be used with caution in patients who are at risk of or who have a history
 of ATE/VTE
  Cardiac failure: Cases of cardiac failure have been reported in clinical studies with tivozanib. Signs
 or symptoms of cardiac failure should be periodically monitored throughout treatment with
 tivozanib. Management of cardiac failure events may require temporary interruption or permanent
 discontinuation and/or dose reduction of tivozanib therapy, plus treatment of potential underlying
 causes of cardiac failure e.g. hypertension.
  Haemorrhage: In clinical studies with tivozanib, haemorrhagic events have been reported. Tivozanib
 must be used with caution in patients who are at risk for, or who have a history of bleeding. If any
 bleeding requires medical intervention, tivozanib should be temporarily interrupted.
  Proteinuria: Proteinuria has been reported in clinical studies with tivozanib. Monitoring for
 proteinuria before initiation of, and periodically throughout treatment is recommended. For patients
 who develop Grade 2 (> 1.0-3.4 g/24 hours) or Grade 3 (≥ 3.5 g/24 hours) proteinuria, the dose of
 tivozanib has to be reduced or the treatment temporarily interrupted. If the patient develops Grade
 4 proteinuria (nephrotic syndrome) tivozanib has to be discontinued.
  Hepatotoxicity: In clinical studies with tivozanib, elevations of ALT, AST and bilirubin have been
 reported. The majority of AST and ALT elevations were not accompanied with concomitant
 elevations of bilirubin. AST, ALT, bilirubin, and AP should be monitored before initiation of and
 periodically throughout treatment with tivozanib because of the potential risk of hepatotoxicity.
  Hand foot skin reaction: In clinical studies with tivozanib, hand foot skin reaction (palmar-plantar
 erythrodysaesthesia) has been reported. Management of patients experiencing HFSR may include
 topical therapies for symptomatic relief with consideration of temporary interruption and/or
 reduction in treatment dose or, in severe or persistent cases, permanent discontinuation of
 treatment.
  QT interval prolongation: In clinical studies with tivozanib, QT/QTc interval prolongation has been
 reported. It is recommended that tivozanib be used with caution in patients with a history of QT
 interval prolongation or other relevant pre-existing cardiac disease and those receiving other
 medications known to increase the QT interval. Baseline and periodic monitoring of
 electrocardiograms and maintenance of electrolytes (e.g. calcium, magnesium, potassium) within
 the normal range is recommended.
  Gastrointestinal perforation/fistula: It is recommended that symptoms of gastrointestinal
 perforation or fistula should be periodically monitored throughout treatment with tivozanib and that
 tivozanib should be used with caution in patients at risk for GI perforation or fistula.
  Wound healing complications: For precautionary reasons, temporary interruption of tivozanib
 therapy is recommended in patients undergoing major surgical procedures. The decision to resume
 tivozanib therapy after surgery should be based on clinical judgment of adequate wound healing.
  Hypothyroidism: In clinical studies with tivozanib, hypothyroidism has been reported.
 Hypothyroidism has been observed to occur at any time during treatment with tivozanib, developing
 as early as within two months of treatment initiation. Thyroid function should be monitored before
 initiation of, and periodically throughout treatment with tivozanib. Hypothyroidism should be
 treated according to standard medical practice.

NCCP Regimen: Tivozanib Published: 01/07/2019
 Version number: 3
Therapy Review: 23/06/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00564
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

  Tartrazine: Tivozanib 890 microgram hard capsules contain tartrazine (E102) which may cause
 allergic reactions.
  Women of childbearing potential/contraception in males and females: Women of childbearing
 potential should avoid becoming pregnant while on tivozanib. Female partners of male patients
 taking tivozanib should also avoid pregnancy. Effective methods of contraception should be used by
 male and female patients and their partners during therapy, and for at least one month after
 completing therapy. It is currently unknown whether tivozanib may reduce the effectiveness of
 hormonal contraceptives and therefore women using hormonal contraceptives should add a barrier
 method.
  Aneurysms and artery dissections: The use of VEGF pathway inhibitors in patients with or without
 hypertension may promote the formation of aneurysms and/or artery dissections. Before initiating
 tivozanib, this risk should be carefully considered in patients with risk factors such as hypertension
 or history of aneurysm.
  Elderly patients: Dysphonia, diarrhoea, fatigue, weight decreased, appetite decreased and
 hypothyroidism occurred more commonly in patients ≥ 65 years of age. Healthcare professions
 should be aware that elderly patients may be at increased risk of adverse reactions.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Caution with administration of tivozanib with strong CYP3A4 inducers. Moderate CYP3A4 inducers
 are not expected to have a clinically relevant effect on tivozanib exposure.
  Herbal preparations containing St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) are contraindicated.
  Caution with BCRP substrates which have a clinically-relevant efflux interaction in the gut
 o ensure that a suitable time window (e.g. 2 hours) is applied between administration of
 tivozanib and the BCRP substrate
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:
 1. Motzer RJ et al Tivozanib Versus Sorafenib As Initial Targeted Therapy for Patients With Metastatic
 Renal Cell Carcinoma: Results From a Phase III Trial. J Clin Oncol. 2013 Oct 20;31(30):3791-9
 2. Tivozanib (Fotivda®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed Sept 2021. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/fotivda-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 24/07/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Updated adverse events
 2 23/06/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 section.
 Amendment made to dosage form
 to correctly include as microgram in
 3 23/09/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 Treatment table, Table 1 and Table
 3.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Tivozanib Published: 01/07/2019
 Version number: 3
Therapy Review: 23/06/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 5
NCCP Regimen Code: 00564
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
