NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Pembrolizumab, PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code status*
 Pembrolizumab is indicated in combination with PEMEtrexed C34 00569a Pembrolizumab: ODMS
 and CISplatin for the first-line treatment of metastatic non- 01/02/2021
 squamous NSCLC in adults whose tumors have no EGFR or ALK PEMEtrexed: N/A
 positive mutations CISplatin: N/A
 *This applies to post 2012 indications

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their independent
 medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Treatment is administered every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in combination with CISplatin and then followed by
 maintenance therapy of pembrolizumab and PEMEtrexed every 21 days or until disease progression or unacceptable
 toxicity develops.
 Atypical responses (i.e., an initial transient increase in tumour size or small new lesions within the first few months
 followed by tumour shrinkage) have been observed. It is recommended to continue treatment for clinically stable
 patients with initial evidence of disease progression until disease progression is confirmed.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is
 administered.

 Admin Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 Order
 1 1 Pembrolizumab1 200mg IV infusion 100mL 0.9% NaCl over 30 Every 21 days
 minutes using a low-protein
 binding 0.2 to 5 micrometre
 in-line or add-on filter
 2 1 PEMEtrexed2 500mg/m2 IV infusion 100mL 0.9% NaCl over 10 Every 21 days
 minutes
 3 1 CISplatin3 75 mg/m2 IV infusion 1000mL 0.9% NaCl over 2 Every 21 days
 hours to start 30 minutes cycles 1-4
 after completion of
 PEMEtrexed
 Folic Acid or multivitamin 350-1000
 containing 350-1000 micrograms4 PO
 micrograms folic acid
 Vitamin B12 1,000 IM
 (hydroxycobolamin) micrograms5
 1Pembrolizumab is diluted to a final concentration ranging from 1-10mg/ml.

 2PEMEtrexed is physically incompatible with diluents containing calcium, including lactated Ringer’s injection and Ringer’s injection.

 3
 Pre and post hydration therapy required for CISplatin:
 See local hospital policy recommendations.
 Suggested prehydration for CISplatin therapy:
  Administer 1000mL NaCl 0.9% over 60 minutes
  Administer CISplatin as described above
 Post hydration:

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Administer 10mmol magnesium sulphate (MgSO4) and 20mmol potassium chloride (KCl) in 1000ml 0.9% NaCl over 2 hours.
 Mannitol 10% may be used as per local policy to induce diuresis, although there is no conclusive evidence that this is required. The routine use of furosemide
 to increase urine flow is not recommended unless there is evidence of fluid overload.
 4At least five doses of folic acid must be taken during the seven days preceding the first dose of PEMEtrexed, and dosing must continue during the full course

 of therapy and for 21 days after the last dose of PEMEtrexed.
 5Must be given in the week preceding the first dose of PEMEtrexed and once every three cycles thereafter. Subsequent vitamin B injections may be given
 12
 on the same day as PEMEtrexed.
 Note: Administration volumes and fluids have been standardised to facilitate electronic prescribing system builds.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  Histologically or cytologically confirmed stage IV non-squamous NSCLC with no sensitizing EGFR
 mutations or ALK translocations
  ECOG 0-1
  Adequate haematological, hepatic and renal function

 CAUTION:
  Use with caution in patients with history of serious autoimmune disease

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to pembrolizumab, PEMEtrexed, CISplatin or any of the excipients
  Information regarding prior therapy with an anti PD-1 or anti PD-L1 antibody Available on the NCCP
 website
  Active or unstable CNS metastases
  Creatinine clearance < 45ml/min
  Immunosuppressive doses of systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive medication(s)
 (defined as >10mg prednisoLONE/daily (or steroid equivalent, excluding inhaled or topical
 steroids)
  History of interstitial lung disease or pneumonitis
  Any active clinically significant infection requiring therapy
  Pre existing neuropathies ≥ grade 2
  Significant hearing impairment/tinnitus

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Blood glucose
  Thyroid function tests
  Virology Screen: Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HbcoreAb) and Hepatitis C
  Audiology and creatinine clearance if clinically indicated

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
  Blood glucose prior to each cycle
  Thyroid function tests every 3 to 6 weeks
NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  Ototoxicity and sensory neural damage should be assessed clinically prior to each cycle of
 platinum based chemotherapy in particular CISplatin

 Disease monitoring: Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and
 any other test/s as directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 Pembrolizumab dose modifications:
  Dose reduction is not recommended for pembrolizumab.
  Management of immune-related adverse reactions may require withholding of a dose or permanent
 discontinuation of pembrolizumab therapy and institution of systemic high-dose corticosteroid
 (See Table 5).
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 PEMEtrexed and CISplatin dose modifications:
  Treatment may be delayed to allow sufficient time for recovery.
  Treatment should be discontinued after 2 dose reductions if toxicity ≥ Grade 3 occurs.
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Recommended dose modification of PEMEtrexed and CISplatin in haematological toxicity
 ANC x 109 /L Comment Platelets x 109 Comment
 /L
 ≥ 1.5 100% ≥ 100 Continue
 1.0 to ˂ 1.5 Consult with team, if clinically 75 - ˂ 100 Consult with team, if clinically well
 well, continue treatment treatment, consider continuation
 0.5 to ˂ 1.0 Delay until treatment recovery 50 - ˂ 75 Delay until treatment recovery
 ˂ 0.5 Delay until treatment recovery ˂ 50 Delay until treatment recovery and reduce
 and reduce by 25% by 25%
 Febrile neutropenia Delay until treatment recovery ˂ 50 with Delay until treatment recovery and reduce
 and reduce by 25% bleeding by 50%

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification in renal and hepatic impairment*
 Drug Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Pembrolizumab Mild/Moderate No dose adjustment Mild No dose adjustment required
 required
 Severe Has not been studied Moderate/Severe Has not been studied
 CISplatin CrCl (mL/min) Dose No dose reduction necessary
 ≥60 100%
 45-59 75%
 <45 Consider CARBOplatin
 PEMEtrexed CrCl (mL/min) Dose Bilirubin Aminotransferases
 ≥45 100% >1.5 x and > 3 x ULN (hepatic Not
 ULN /or metastases absent) recomm
 ended
 or > 5 x ULN (presence
 of hepatic metastases
 <45 Not recommended Clinical decision
 *See Table 3 for management of pembrolizumab in treatment-related hepatitis and Table 5 for management of PEMEtrexed and
 CISplatin in treatment-related hepatotoxicity

 Management of immune-related adverse events:
 Table 3: Recommended treatment modifications for pembrolizumab
 Immune-related Severity (NCI-CTCAE V.4 grading) Treatment modification
 adverse reactions
 Pneumonitis Grade 2 Withhold*
 Grade 3 or 4, or recurrent Grade 2 Permanently discontinue
 Colitis Grade 2 or 3 Withhold*
 Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 3 Permanently discontinue
 Nephritis Grade 2 with creatinine > 1.5 to ≤ 3 times upper limit of Withhold*
 normal (ULN)
 Grade ≥ 3 with creatinine > 3 times ULN Permanently discontinue
 Endocrinopathies Grade 2 adrenal insufficiency and Withhold treatment until
 hypophysitis controlled by hormone
 replacement
 Grades 3 or 4 adrenal insufficiency Withhold*
 or symptomatic hypophysitis
 For patients with Grade 3 or
 Type 1 diabetes associated with Grade ≥ 3 hyperglycaemia Grade 4 endocrinopathy that
 (glucose > 250 mg/dL or > 13.9 mmol/L) or associated with improved to Grade 2 or lower
 ketoacidosis and is controlled with
 hormone replacement, if
 Hyperthyroidism Grade ≥ 3 indicated, continuation of
 pembrolizumab may be
 considered after corticosteroid
 taper, if needed.
 Otherwise treatment should
 be discontinued.

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Hypothyroidism Hypothyroidism may be
 managed with replacement
 therapy without treatment
 interruption.
 Hepatitis Grade 2 with aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine Withhold*
 aminotransferase (ALT) > 3 to 5 times ULN or total bilirubin >
 1.5 to 3 times ULN
 Grade ≥ 3 with AST or ALT > 5 times ULN or total bilirubin > 3 Permanently discontinue
 times ULN
 In case of liver metastasis with baseline Grade 2 elevation of
 AST or ALT, hepatitis with AST or ALT increases ≥ 50% and lasts
 ≥ 1 week
 Skin reactions Grade 3 or suspected Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) or toxic Withhold*
 epidermal necrolysis (TEN)
 Grade 4 or confirmed SJS or TEN Permanently discontinue
 Other immune- Based on severity and type of reaction (Grade 2 or Grade 3) Withhold*
 related adverse Grade 3 or 4 myocarditis Permanently discontinue
 reactions** Grade 3 or 4 encephalitis
 Grade 3 or 4 Guillain-Barre syndrome
 Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 3
 Infusion-related Grade 3 or 4 Permanently discontinue
 reactions
 *until adverse reactions recover to Grade 0-1. If treatment related toxicity does not resolve to Grade 0-1 within 12
 weeks after last dose of pembrolizumab or if corticosteroid dosing cannot be reduced to ≤ 10mg prednisone or
 equivalent per day within 12 weeks, pembrolizumab should be permanently discontinued.
 **Pembrolizumab should be permanently discontinued for Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 3 immune-related adverse
 reactions, unless otherwise specified in Table 3.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 4: Dose Modification of PEMEtrexed and CISplatin for Adverse Events

 Adverse effect Recommended dose modification
 Diarrhoea
 Grade ≥ 3 and any diarrhoea Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to
 irrespective of grade requiring patient’s pre-therapy value. Resume at 75% of previous dose
 hospitalisation for both PEMEtrexed and CISplatin
 Mucositis
 Grade ≥3 Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to
 patient’s pre-therapy value. Resume at 50% of previous dose
 for PEMEtrexed and at 100% of previous dose for CISplatin.
 Neurotoxicity
 Grade 2 Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to
 patient’s pre-therapy value.
 Resume at 100% dose for PEMEtrexed and reduce CISplatin by 50%

 Discontinue
 Grade ≥3
 or any recurrence of
 neurotoxicity
 Other
 Grade ≥3 Withhold treatment until resolution to less than or equal to patient’s
NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 pre-therapy value. Resume at resume at 75% of previous dose
 PEMEtrexed and CISplatin
 Grade ≥3 toxicity after 2 dose Consider discontinuation of both drugs. Discuss with
 reductions consultant.
 Allergic reactions:
 Clinician decision. Consider discontinuation of whichever drug
 Grade 3 ≥ caused the allergy.

 Treatment related hepatotoxicity
 Table 5: Recommended dose modification for PEMEtrexed and CISplatin for treatment related hepatotoxicity
 Bilirubin ALT, AST Dose Modification
 > 3.0 x ULN or > 5 x ULN Withhold treatment until resolution to
 less than or equal to patient’s pre-
 therapy value
 Resume at 75% of previous dose for
 both PEMEtrexed and CISplatin
 >10 x ULN or >20 x ULN Discontinue

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting -
 Available on the NCCP website

Pembrolizumab: Minimal (Refer to local policy)
PEMEtrexed: Low (Refer to local policy)
CISplatin: High (Refer to local policy)

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, anti-emetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and
 information is available in the following document:
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) -Available on the NCCP website
  NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

PREMEDICATIONS:
  PEMEtrexed should be pre-medicated with corticosteroid the day prior to, on the day of, and the day
 after PEMEtrexed administration. The corticosteroid should be equivalent to 4 mg of
 dexAMETHasone administered orally twice a day.
  Intramuscular injection of vitamin B12 (hydroxycobolamin) (1,000 micrograms) in the week preceding
 the first dose of PEMEtrexed and once every three cycles thereafter. Subsequent vitamin B12
 injections may be given on the same day as PEMEtrexed.
  At least five doses of folic acid must be given during the seven days preceding the first dose of
 PEMEtrexed, and dosing must continue during the full course of therapy and for 21 days after the
 last dose of PEMEtrexed.

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: None usually required

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
Pembrolizumab
 In view of the serious and potentially life-threatening side effects of pembrolizumab, it is mandatory
 that patients be carefully assessed prior to commencing on treatment. Efficacy and safety data from
 patients ≥ 75 years are limited. For patients ≥ 75 years, pembrolizumab combination therapy should
 be used with caution after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis
 Patients have to be monitored regularly for hepatic, pulmonary, gastrointestinal toxicity and for
 endocrinopathies while on treatment.
 Immune-related adverse reactions: Most immune-related adverse reactions occurring during
 treatment with pembrolizumab were reversible and managed with interruptions of pembrolizumab,
 administration of corticosteroids and / or supportive care. Immune-related adverse reactions have
 also occurred after the last dose of pembrolizumab. Immune-related adverse reactions affecting more
 than one body system can occur simultaneously.
 For suspected immune-related adverse reactions, adequate evaluation to confirm aetiology or exclude
 other causes should be ensured. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, pembrolizumab should
 be withheld and corticosteroids administered. Upon improvement to Grade ≤ 1, corticosteroid taper
 should be initiated and continued over at least 1 month. Based on limited data from clinical studies in
 patients whose immune-related adverse reactions could not be controlled with corticosteroid use,
 administration of other systemic immunosuppressants can be considered. Pembrolizumab may be
 restarted within 12 weeks after last dose of pembrolizumab if the adverse reaction remains at Grade
 ≤ 1 and corticosteroid dose has been reduced to ≤ 10 mg prednisone or equivalent per day.
 Pembrolizumab must be permanently discontinued for any Grade 3 immune-related adverse reaction
 that recurs and for any Grade 4 immune-related adverse reaction toxicity, except for endocrinopathies
 that are controlled with replacement hormones.
 Immune-related pneumonitis: Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of pneumonitis.
 Suspected pneumonitis should be confirmed with radiographic imaging and other causes excluded.
 Corticosteroids should be administered for Grade ≥ 2 events (initial dose of 1-2 mg/kg/day prednisone
 or equivalent followed by a taper); pembrolizumab should be withheld for Grade 2 pneumonitis, and
 permanently discontinued for Grade 3, Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 2 pneumonitis.
 Immune-related colitis: Colitis has been reported in patients receiving pembrolizumab. Patients
 should be monitored for signs and symptoms of colitis, and other causes excluded. Corticosteroids
 should be administered for Grade ≥ 2 events (initial dose of 1-2 mg/kg/day prednisone or equivalent
 followed by a taper); pembrolizumab should be withheld for Grade 2 or Grade 3 colitis, and
 permanently discontinued for Grade 4 colitis. The potential risk of gastrointestinal perforation should
 be taken into consideration.
 Immune-related hepatitis: Hepatitis has been reported in patients receiving pembrolizumab. Patients
 should be monitored for changes in liver function (at the start of treatment, periodically during
 treatment and as indicated based on clinical evaluation) and symptoms of hepatitis, and other causes
 excluded. Corticosteroids should be administered (initial dose of 0.5-1 mg/kg/day (for Grade 2 events)
 and 1-2 mg/kg/day (for Grade ≥ 3 events) prednisone or equivalent followed by a taper) and, based
 on severity of liver enzyme elevations, pembrolizumab should be withheld or discontinued.

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Immune-related nephritis: Nephritis has been reported in patients receiving pembrolizumab. Patients
 should be monitored for changes in renal function, and other causes of renal dysfunction excluded.
 Corticosteroids should be administered for Grade ≥ 2 events (initial dose of 1-2 mg/kg/day prednisone
 or equivalent followed by a taper) and, based on severity of creatinine elevations, pembrolizumab
 should be withheld for Grade 2, and permanently discontinued for Grade 3 or Grade 4 nephritis.
 Immune-related endocrinopathies: Severe endocrinopathies, including hypophysitis, type 1 diabetes
 mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis, hypothyroidism, and hyperthyroidism have been observed with
 pembrolizumab treatment. Long-term hormone replacement therapy may be necessary in cases of
 immune-related endocrinopathies.
 Hypophysitis has been reported in patients receiving pembrolizumab. Patients should be monitored
 for signs and symptoms of hypophysitis (including hypopituitarism and secondary adrenal
 insufficiency) and other causes excluded. Corticosteroids to treat secondary adrenal insufficiency and
 other hormone replacement should be administered as clinically indicated, and pembrolizumab
 should be withheld for symptomatic hypophysitis until the event is controlled with hormone
 replacement. Continuation of pembrolizumab may be considered, after corticosteroid taper, if
 needed. Pituitary function and hormone levels should be monitored to ensure appropriate hormone
 replacement.
 Type 1 diabetes mellitus, including diabetic ketoacidosis, has been reported in patients receiving
 pembrolizumab. Patients should be monitored for hyperglycaemia or other signs and symptoms of
 diabetes. Insulin should be administered for type 1 diabetes, and pembrolizumab should be withheld
 in cases of Grade 3 hyperglycaemia until metabolic control is achieved. Thyroid disorders, including
 hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism and thyroiditis, have been reported in patients receiving
 pembrolizumab and can occur at any time during treatment; therefore, patients should be monitored
 for changes in thyroid function (at the start of treatment, periodically during treatment and as
 indicated based on clinical evaluation) and clinical signs and symptoms of thyroid disorders.
 Hypothyroidism may be managed with replacement therapy without treatment interruption and
 without corticosteroids. Hyperthyroidism may be managed symptomatically. Pembrolizumab should
 be withheld for Grade ≥ 3 until recovery to Grade ≤ 1 hyperthyroidism. For patients with Grade 3 or
 Grade 4 hyperthyroidism that improved to Grade 2 or lower, continuation of pembrolizumab may be
 considered, after corticosteroid taper, if needed. Thyroid function and hormone levels should be
 monitored to ensure appropriate hormone replacement.
 Immune-related skin adverse reactions: Immune-related severe skin reactions have been reported in
 patients receiving pembrolizumab. Patients should be monitored for suspected severe skin reactions
 and other causes should be excluded. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, pembrolizumab
 should be withheld or permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids should be administered. Cases
 of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), some with fatal outcome,
 have been reported in patients receiving pembrolizumab). For signs or symptoms of SJS or TEN,
 pembrolizumab should be withheld and the patient should be referred to a specialised unit for
 assessment and treatment. If SJS or TEN is confirmed, pembrolizumab should be permanently
 discontinued. Caution should be used when considering the use of pembrolizumab in a patient who
 has previously experienced a severe or life-threatening skin adverse reaction on prior treatment with
 other immune stimulatory anticancer agents.
 Other immune-related adverse reactions: The following additional clinically significant, immune-
 related adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving pembrolizumab: uveitis, arthritis,
 myositis, pancreatitis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, myasthenic syndrome, haemolytic anaemia,
 sarcoidosis and encephalitis. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, pembrolizumab should be
 withheld and corticosteroids administered. Pembrolizumab may be restarted within 12 weeks after

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 last dose of pembrolizumab if the adverse reaction remains at Grade ≤ 1 and corticosteroid dose has
 been reduced to ≤ 10 mg prednisone or equivalent per day.
 Pembrolizumab must be permanently discontinued for any Grade 3 immune related adverse
 reaction that recurs and for any Grade 4 immune related adverse reaction toxicity.
 Infusion-related reactions: Severe infusion-related reactions have been reported in patients receiving
 pembrolizumab. For severe infusion reactions, infusion should be stopped and pembrolizumab
 permanently discontinued. Patients with mild or moderate infusion reaction may continue to receive
 pembrolizumab with close monitoring; premedication with antipyretic and antihistamine may be
 considered.

PEMEtrexed
  Myelosuppression: Usually the dose limiting toxicity with PEMEtrexed. PEMEtrexed should not be
 given to patients until absolute neutrophil count (ANC) returns to 1.5x109/L and platelet count
 returns to 100x109/L.
  Skin reactions: Pre-treatment with dexAMETHasone (or equivalent) can reduce the incidence and
 severity of skin reactions.
  Cardiotoxicity: Serious cardiovascular events including MI and cerebrovascular events have been
 uncommonly reported usually when PEMEtrexed is given in combination with another cytotoxic
 agent. Most of the patients in whom these events have been observed had pre-existing
 cardiovascular risk factors.

CISplatin
  Renal Toxicity: Nephrotoxicity is common with CISplatin. Encourage oral hydration. Avoid
 nephrotoxic drugs such as aminoglycoside antibiotics. Serious renal events, including acute renal
 failure, have been reported with PEMEtrexed alone or in association with other chemotherapeutic
 agents. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and renal tubular necrosis were also reported in post
 marketing setting with PEMEtrexed alone or with other chemotherapeutic agents. Most of these
 events resolved after PEMEtrexed withdrawal. Patients should be regularly monitored for acute
 tubular necrosis, decreased renal function and signs and symptoms of nephrogenic diabetes
 insipidus (e.g. hypernatraemia).
  Neurotoxicity and Ototoxicity: Ototoxicity and sensory neural damage should be assessed by history
 prior to each cycle.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  The use of systemic corticosteroids or immunosuppressants before starting pembrolizumab should
 be avoided because of their potential interference with the pharmacodynamics activity and efficacy
 of pembrolizumab. However, systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants can be used
 after starting pembrolizumab to treat immune-related adverse reactions.
  In patients with normal renal function (CrCl > 80 mL/min), high doses of non-steroidal anti-
 inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen > 1600 mg/day) and aspirin at higher dose (> 1.3g
 daily) may decrease PEMEtrexed elimination and, consequently, increase the occurrence of
 PEMEtrexed adverse events.
  The concomitant administration of PEMEtrexed with NSAIDs or aspirin at higher dose should be
 avoided for 2 days before, on the day of, and 2 days following PEMEtrexed administration on patients
 with mild to moderate renal insufficiency (CrCl from 45 to 79 mlLmin).
  In patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency eligible for PEMEtrexed therapy, NSAIDs with
 long elimination half-lives should be interrupted for at least 5 days prior to, on the day of, and at
NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 least 2 days following PEMEtrexed administration.
  Concomitant administration of substances that are also tubularly secreted (e.g. probenecid,
 penicillin) could potentially result in delayed clearance of PEMEtrexed.
  Nephrotoxic drugs (e.g. loop diuretics and aminoglycosides) may decrease the clearance of
 PEMEtrexed.
  Avoid concurrent use of CISplatin with nephrotoxic drugs (e.g. aminoglycosides, furosemide, NSAIDS)
 due to additive nephrotoxicity. If necessary monitor renal function closely.
  Avoid concurrent use of CISplatin with ototoxic drugs (e.g. aminoglycosides, furosemide, NSAIDS).
 When necessary perform regular audiometric testing.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

COMPANY SUPPORT RESOURCES/Useful Links:
Please note that this is for information only and does not constitute endorsement by the NCCP
Patient Guide
https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/196f9071-00a4-4498-9dcb-e29ef7b35e55.pdf
Patient Alert Card
https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/c0984994-f8e8-4b10-95dd-7be12ff6c6f9.pdf

REFERENCES:
1. Gandhi, L et al. Pembrolizumab plus Chemotherapy in Metastatic Non–Small-Cell Lung Cancer. N
 Engl J Med 2018; 378:2078-92
2. Irish Medication Safety Network: Best Practice Guidelines For the Safe Use of Intravenous
 Potassium in Irish Hospitals Available at: https://imsn.ie/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/IMSN-Best-
 Practice-Guideline-on-IV-Potassium-Oct-2020-approved.pdf.
3. Nephrotoxicity Associated with CISplatin EviQ ID: 184 v.3. Available at:
 https://www.eviq.org.au/clinical-resources/side-effect-and-toxicity-management/prophylaxis-and-
 treatment/184-prevention-and-management-of-cisplatin-nephrot
4. Portilla D et al. CISplatin nephrotoxicity. UptoDate Accessed Oct 2017
 https://www.uptodate.com/contents/CISplatinnephrotoxicity?source=search_result&search=CISpl
 atin%20hydration&selectedTitle=1~150
5. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
6. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network.
7. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V6 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf.
8. Pembrolizumab (Keytruda®) Summary of Patient Characteristics. Last updated: 26/07/2022.
 Accessed 17/10/2022. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/keytruda-epar-product-information_en.pdf
9. PEMEtrexed (Alimta®) Summary of Patient Characteristics. Last updated: 03/05/2022. Accessed
 17/10/2022.Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-
 information/alimta-epar-product-information_en.pdf
10. CISplatin Summary of Patient Characteristics. Last updated 31/08/2022. Accessed 17/10/2022.
 Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0822-199-
 001_24102022175647.pdf

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 22/11/2019 Dr Dearbhaile Collins
 2 01/02/2021 Updated reimbursement status Dr Dearbhaile Collins
 Updated CISplatin hydration
 3 24/06/2021 Dr Dearbhaile Collins
 protocol
 Amended footnotes in treatment
 table. Updated management of
 4 19/12/2022 immune-related adverse events Prof. Maccon Keane
 (Table 3). Updated adverse effects
 and drug interactions.
 Updated wording in exclusions
 section regarding prior PD-L1
 therapy. Updated Table 1: Dose
 modifications for haematological
 5 04/09/2025 toxicity.Updated Table 4: Dose Prof. Maccon Keane
 Modification of PEMEtrexed and
 CISplatin for Adverse Events.
 Removed nadir blood counts
 comment from adverse effects.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: Pembrolizumab, Published: 22/11/2019
 Version number: 5
PEMEtrexed and CISplatin Therapy Review: 19/12/2027
Tumour Group: Lung ISMO Contributor:

NCCP Regimen Code: 00569 Dr Dearbhaile Collins, Prof. Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibility of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
