NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Lorlatinib Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 As monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with anaplastic C34 00570a CDS
 lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer 01/10/2019
 (NSCLC), following disease progression on
 (i) alectinib or ceritinib as the first ALK-targeted treatment
 or
 (ii) crizotinib and at least one other ALK-targeted treatment

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Lorlatinib is administered orally once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops.

 Drug Dose Route Cycle

 Lorlatinib 100mg once daily PO continuous
 Missed Dose: If a dose is missed, the patient should make up that dose, unless the next dose is due within 4 hours.
 The tablets should be swallowed whole (tablets should not be chewed, crushed or split prior to swallowing) and can be
 taken with or without food, taken at approximately the same time each day.

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ALK-positive NSCLC as demonstrated by an accurate and validated test method
  ECOG 0-2
  Adequate organ function

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to lorlatinib or to any of the excipients
  Clinically significant interstitial fibrosis or pulmonary interstitial disease
  Clinically significant cardiovascular disease
  Concomitant use of strong CYP3A4/5 inducers

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 Published: 30/07/2019
NCCP Regimen: Lorlatinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 03/11/2026
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 1 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00570
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  ALK-positive NSCLC as demonstrated by an accurate and validated test method
  Lipid profile (Serum cholesterol and triglycerides)
  Coagulation
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  ECG
  Blood pressure
  Glucose
  Amylase and lipase levels

 Regular tests:
  Lipid profile (Serum cholesterol and triglycerides) at 2,4 and 8 weeks and then as clinically
 appropriate
  FBC, renal and liver profile monthly
  ECG monthly or as clinically indicated
  Glucose as clinically indicated
  Blood pressure after two weeks and at least monthly thereafter during treatment
  Amylase and lipase levels monthly

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Lorlatinib dose reduction levels are summarised in Table 1 below.
  Strong cytochrome P-450 (CYP) 3A4/5 inhibitors:
 o Concurrent use of lorlatinib with medicinal products that are strong CYP3A4/5
 inhibitors and grapefruit juice products may increase lorlatinib plasma
 concentrations (see Drug Interactions).
 o An alternative concomitant medicinal product with less potential to inhibit CYP3A4/5
 should be considered.
 o If a strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor must be co-administered, the starting lorlatinib dose
 of 100 mg once daily should be reduced to once daily 75mg dose.
 o If concurrent use of the strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor is discontinued, lorlatinib should
 be resumed at the dose used prior to the initiation of the strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor
 and after a washout period of 3 to 5 half-lives of the strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor.
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Table 1: Dose level reductions for lorlatinib
 Dose level Lorlatinib
 Recommended starting dose 100mg
 First dose reduction 75mg
 Second dose reduction 50mg
 Third dose reduction Discontinue

 Published: 30/07/2019
NCCP Regimen: Lorlatinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 03/11/2026
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 2 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00570
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of lorlatinib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Mild/moderate No dose adjustments are Mild No dose adjustments are
 (CrCl ≥ 30ml/min) recommended recommended

 Severe A reduced dose of lorlatinib is Moderate or severe No information is available.
 (CrCl < 30 recommended e.g. a once daily Therefore, lorlatinib is not
 mL/min) starting dose of 75 mg. recommended.
 No information is available for
 patients on renal dialysis.

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Recommended dose Modification of lorlatinib for Adverse Events
 Adverse reactionsa Dose modification
 Severe hypercholesterolaemia Introduce the use of lipid-lowering therapyb;
 (cholesterol between 401 and 500 if currently on lipid-lowering therapy, increase the dose of this therapy b in
 mg/dL or between 10.35 and 12.92 accordance with respective prescribing information; or change to a new lipid-
 mmol/L) lowering therapyb .
 OR Continue lorlatinib at the same dose without interruption.
 Severe hypertriglyceridaemia
 (triglycerides between 501 and
 1000mg/dL or 5.71 and 11.4
 mmol/L)
 Life-threatening Introduce the use of lipid-lowering therapyb or increase the dose of this therapyb in
 hypercholesterolaemia accordance with respective prescribing information or change to a new lipid-lowering
 (cholesterol over 500mg/dL or therapyb.
 over 12.92 mmol/L) Withhold lorlatinib until recovery of hypercholesterolaemia and/or
 OR hypertriglyceridaemia to moderate or mild severity grade.
 Life-threatening Re-challenge at same lorlatinib dose while maximising lipid-lowering therapyb in
 hypertriglyceridaemia accordance with respective prescribing information.
 (triglycerides over 1000mg/dL or If severe hypercholesterolaemia and/or hypertriglyceridaemia recur despite maximal
 over 11.4 mmol/L) lipid-lowering therapyb in accordance with respective prescribing information, reduce
 lorlatinib by one dose level.

 Central nervous system effects (psychotic effects and changes in cognition, mood, mental status or speech)
 Grade 2-3 Withhold dose until toxicity is less than or equal to Grade 1. Then resume lorlatinib at
 one reduced dose level.
 Grade 4 Permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
 Lipase/Amylase increase
 Grade ≥3 Withhold lorlatinib until lipase or amylase returns to baseline.
 Then resume lorlatinib at one reduced dose level.
 Interstitial lung disease (ILD)/Pneumonitis
 Grade ≤2 Withhold lorlatinib until symptoms have returned to baseline and consider initiating
 corticosteroids.
 Resume lorlatinib at one reduced dose level.
 Permanently discontinue lorlatinib if ILD/pneumonitis recurs or fails to recover after
 6 weeks of lorlatinib hold and steroid treatment.
 Grade ≥3 Permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
 Published: 30/07/2019
NCCP Regimen: Lorlatinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 03/11/2026
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 3 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00570
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 PR interval prolongation/Atrioventricular (AV) block
 First degree AV block: Continue lorlatinib at the same dose without interruption. Consider effects of
 Asymptomatic concomitant medicinal products, and assess and correct electrolyte imbalance that
 may prolong PR interval. Monitor ECG/symptoms potentially related to AV block
 closely.
 First degree AV block: Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant medicinal products, and assess
 Symptomatic and correct electrolyte imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Monitor
 ECG/symptoms potentially related to AV block closely. If symptoms resolve, resume
 lorlatinib at one reduced dose level.
 Second degree AV block: Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant medicinal products, and assess
 Asymptomatic and correct electrolyte imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Monitor
 ECG/symptoms potentially related to AV block closely. If subsequent ECG does not
 show second degree AV block, resume lorlatinib at one reduced dose level.
 Second degree AV block: Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant medicinal products, and assess
 Symptomatic and correct electrolyte imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Refer for cardiac
 observation and monitoring. Consider pacemaker placement if symptomatic AV block
 persists. If symptoms and the second degree AV block resolve or if patients revert to
 asymptomatic first degree AV block, resume lorlatinib at one reduced dose level.
 Complete AV block Withhold lorlatinib. Consider effects of concomitant medicinal products, and assess
 and correct electrolyte imbalance that may prolong PR interval. Refer for cardiac
 observation and monitoring. Pacemaker placement may be indicated for severe
 symptoms associated with AV block. If AV block does not resolve, placement of a
 permanent pacemaker may be considered. If pacemaker placed, resume lorlatinib at
 full dose. If no pacemaker placed, resume lorlatinib at one reduced dose level only
 when symptoms resolve and PR interval is less than 200 msec.
 Hypertension
 Grade 3 Withhold lorlatinib until hypertension has recovered to Grade 1 or less, then resume
 lorlatinib at the same dose.
 If Grade 3 hypertension recurs, withhold lorlatinib until recovery to Grade 1 or less,
 and resume at a reduced dose.
 If adequate hypertension control cannot be achieved with optimal medical
 management, permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
 Grade 4 Withhold lorlatinib until recovery to Grade 1 or less, and resume at a reduced dose or
 permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
 If Grade 4 hypertension recurs, permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
 Hyperglycaemia
 Grade 3 Withhold lorlatinib until hyperglycaemia is adequately controlled, then resume
 OR lorlatinib at the next lower dosage.
 Grade 4 If adequate hyperglycaemic control cannot be achieved with optimal medical
 management, permanently discontinue lorlatinib.
 Other adverse reactions
 Grade ≤2 Consider no dose modification or reduce by one dose level, as clinically indicated.

 Grade ≥3 Withhold lorlatinib until symptoms resolve to less than or equal to Grade 2 or
 baseline. Then resume lorlatinib at one reduced dose level.
 Abbreviations: CTCAE=Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events; ECG=electrocardiogram; HMG CoA=3 -hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl
 coenzyme A; NCI=National Cancer Institute; ULN=upper limi t of normal.
 a Grade categories are based on NCI CTCAE classifications.
 b Lipid-lowering therapy may include: HMG CoA reductase inhibitor, nicotinic acid, fibric acid derivatives, or ethyl esters of omega -3 fatty

 acids

 Published: 30/07/2019
NCCP Regimen: Lorlatinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 03/11/2026
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 4 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00570
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL: Minimal to low (Refer to local policy).

PREMEDICATIONS: Not required

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.
Lorlatinib is subject to additional monitoring. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected
adverse reactions.
  Hyperlipidaemia: The use of lorlatinib has been associated with increases in serum cholesterol and
 triglycerides. Serum cholesterol and triglycerides should be monitored before initiation of lorlatinib;
 2, 4 and 8 weeks after initiating lorlatinib; and regularly thereafter. Initiate or increase the dose of
 lipid-lowering medicinal products, if indicated.
  Central nervous system (CNS) effects: CNS effects have been observed in patients receiving
 lorlatinib, including psychotic effects and changes in cognitive function, mood, mental status or
 speech. Dose modification or discontinuation may be required for those patients who develop CNS
 effect(s). Lorlatinib has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Caution should
 be exercised when driving or operating machines.
  Atrioventricular block: Lorlatinib was studied in a population of patients that excluded those with
 second-degree or third-degree AV block (unless paced) or any AV block with PR interval > 220 msec.
 PR interval prolongation and AV block have been reported in patients receiving lorlatinib. Monitor
 electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to initiating lorlatinib and monthly thereafter, particularly in patients
 with predisposing conditions to the occurrence of clinically significant cardiac events. Dose
 modification may be required for those patients who develop AV block.
  Left ventricular ejection fraction decrease: Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decrease has
 been reported in patients receiving lorlatinib who had baseline and at least one follow-up LVEF
 assessment. In patients with cardiac risk factors and those with conditions that can affect LVEF,
 cardiac monitoring, including LVEF assessment at baseline and during treatment, should be
 considered. In patients who develop relevant cardiac signs/symptoms during treatment, cardiac
 monitoring, including LVEF assessment, should be considered.
  Lipase and amylase increase: Elevations of lipase and/or amylase have occurred in patients receiving
 lorlatinib. Risk of pancreatitis should be considered in patients receiving lorlatinib due to
 concomitant hypertriglyceridemia and/or a potential intrinsic mechanism. Patients should be
 monitored for lipase and amylase elevations prior to the start of lorlatinib treatment and regularly
 thereafter as clinically indicated.
  Interstitial lung disease/Pneumonitis: Severe or life-threatening pulmonary adverse reactions
 consistent with ILD/pneumonitis have occurred with lorlatinib. Any patient with symptoms indicative
 of ILD/pneumonitis should be promptly evaluated and lorlatinib should be withheld and/or
 permanently discontinued based on severity.
  Hypertension: Hypertension has been reported in patients receiving lorlatinib. Blood pressure
 should be controlled prior to initiation of lorlatinib. Blood pressure should be monitored after 2
 weeks and at least monthly thereafter during treatment with lorlatinib. Lorlatinib should be
 withheld and resumed at a reduced dose or permanently discontinued based on severity.

 Published: 30/07/2019
NCCP Regimen: Lorlatinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 03/11/2026
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 5 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00570
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

  Hyperglycaemia: Hyperglycaemia has occurred in patients receiving lorlatinib. Fasting serum glucose
 should be assessed prior to initiation of lorlatinib and monitored periodically thereafter according to
 national guidelines. Lorlatinib should be withheld and resumed at a reduced dose or permanently
 discontinued based on severity.
  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation: A highly effective non-hormonal method of contraception is
 required for female patients of childbearing potential during treatment with lorlatinib, because
 lorlatinib can render hormonal contraceptives ineffective (see Drug Interactions). Effective
 contraception must be continued for at least 35 days after completing therapy. During treatment
 with lorlatinib and for at least 14 weeks after the final dose, male patients with female partners of
 childbearing potential must use effective contraception, including a condom, and male patients with
 pregnant partners must use condoms. Male fertility may be compromised during treatment with
 lorlatinib. Men should seek advice on effective fertility preservation before treatment. Lorlatinib is
 not recommended during pregnancy or for women of childbearing potential not using contraception.
 Lorlatinib should not be used during breast-feeding.
  Lactose intolerance: This medicinal product contains lactose as an excipient. Patients with rare
 hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency, or glucose-galactose
 malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Concomitant use of a strong CYP3A4/5 inducer is contraindicated. Concomitant use with moderate
 CYP3A4/5 inducers should be avoided, if possible, as they may also reduce lorlatinib plasma
 concentrations.
  Concomitant administration of lorlatinib with strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors may increase lorlatinib
 plasma concentrations. Grapefruit products may also increase lorlatinib plasma concentrations and
 should be avoided. An alternative concomitant medicinal product with less potential to inhibit
 CYP3A4/5 should be considered. If a strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitor must be concomitantly administered,
 a dose reduction of lorlatinib is recommended (see Dose Modifications).
  Concurrent administration of lorlatinib with CYP3A4/5 substrates with narrow therapeutic indices,
 should be avoided since the concentration of these medicinal products may be reduced by lorlatinib.
  CYP2C9 substrates: Patients should be monitored in case of concomitant treatment with medicinal
 products with narrow therapeutic indices metabolised by CYP2C9 (e.g. coumarin anticoagulants).
  UGT substrates: Patients should be monitored in case of concomitant treatment with medicinal
 products with narrow therapeutic indices metabolised by UGT.
  P-glycoprotein substrates: Medicinal products that are P-gp substrates with narrow therapeutic
 indices (e.g. digoxin, dabigatran etexilate) should be used with caution in combination with lorlatinib
 due to the likelihood of reduced plasma concentrations of these substrates.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 Published: 30/07/2019
NCCP Regimen: Lorlatinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 03/11/2026
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 6 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00570
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

REFERENCES:
1. Solomon, BJ et al. Lorlatinib in patients with ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer: results from a
 global phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol 2018; 19: 1654–67
2. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V3 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
3. Lorlatinib (Lorvigua®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Accessed Aug 2021. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/lorviqua-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 26/07/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 01/10/2019 Updated reimbursement status Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Amended treatment
 table, updated exclusions, tests and
 dose modifications. Amended Table
 3 03/11/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 2 (renal) and Table 3 (SPC update).
 Updated adverse effects and drug
 interactions.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 30/07/2019
NCCP Regimen: Lorlatinib Therapy Version number: 3
 Review: 03/11/2026
Tumour Group: Lung
 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane Page 7 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00570
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use i ndependent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
