NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 (modified) Therapyi
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Treatment of patients with KRAS wild type metastatic colorectal cancer C18 00733a N/A
 * This applies to post 2012 indications only.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 chemotherapy are administered once every 14 days until disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity.

 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Admin.
 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate Cycle
 Order
 1 1 Cetuximab 500mg/m2 IV infusion See footnote b below Every 14 days
 Observe post
 infusion a
 2 1 Oxaliplatin c 85mg/m2 IV infusion 500mL glucose 5% over 2 Every 14 days
 hours
 3 1 Folinic Acid d 400mg/m2 IV infusion 250mL glucose 5% over 2 Every 14 days
 (Calcium hours
 leucovorin)
 4 1 5-Fluorouracil e, f 400mg/m2 IV Bolus Every 14 days
 5 1 5-Fluorouracil f 2400mg/m2 Continuous Over 46 hours in 0.9% NaCl Every 14 days
 IV infusion
 a Obtain vital signs pre-infusion, at 1 hour and post-infusion. 1 hour observation period following end of 1st and 2nd cetuximab

 infusions.
 If no infusion reactions occur for 2 consecutive doses, then may discontinue observation period and vital signs.
 b The initial dose should be given slowly and speed of infusion must not exceed 5 mg/min.

 For subsequent doses, the maximum infusion rate must not exceed 10 mg/min if no adverse reaction to first infusion.
 May be administered diluted in 0.9% NaCl or undiluted.Flush the line with 0.9% NaCl at the end of the cetuximab infusion.
 c Oxaliplatin is incompatible with 0.9% NaCl. Do not piggyback or flush lines with normal saline.

 For oxaliplatin doses ≤ 104mg use 250mL glucose 5%.
 Increase infusion rate time to 4 – 6 hours in case of laryngopharyngeal dysaesthesia reaction.
 Oxaliplatin administration must always precede the administration of 5-Fluorouracil.
 Oxaliplatin may be given at the same time as Folinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) using a Y connector.
 d Folinic Acid (Calcium Leucovorin) must be administered prior to 5-Fluorouracil. It enhances the effects of 5-Fluorouracil by

 increasing 5-Fluorouracil binding to the target enzyme thymidylate synthetase. Acute neurotoxicity is common with oxaliplatin and
 can be precipitated on exposure to the cold therefore in this regimen patients should NOT suck on ice chips during the bolus
 injection of 5-Fluorouracil.
 e Acute neurotoxicity is common with oxaliplatin and can be precipitated on exposure to the cold therefore in this regimen patients

 should NOT suck on ice chips during the bolus injection of 5-Fluorouracil.
 f See dose modifications section for patients with identified partial dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  Wild type KRAS tumours verified by a validated test method
  ECOG 0-2
  Adequate haematological, renal and liver status

 CAUTION:
  Previous pelvic radiotherapy
  Recent MI
  Uncontrolled angina, hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, CHF
  In patients with baseline greater than 3 loose bowel movements (BM) per day (in patients
 without colostomy or ileostomy)
  Symptomatic peripheral neuropathy

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to cetuximab, oxaliplatin, folinic acid, 5-Fluorouracil or any of the excipients
  Patients with mutant RAS mCRC or unknown RAS mCRC status
  Peripheral neuropathy with functional impairment prior to first cycle
  Known complete dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency
  Pregnancy
  Lactation

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, liver and renal profile
  ECG (if patient has compromised cardiac function)
  Complete medical history specifically asking about any previous infusion related reactions (IRR)
 to another antibody, allergy to red meat or tick bites, or any results of tests for IgE antibodies
 against cetuximab
  DPD testing prior to first treatment with 5-Fluorouracil using phenotype and/or genotype
 testing unless patient has been previously tested
 o In patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, blood uracil levels used for
 dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) phenotyping should be interpreted with caution,
 as impaired kidney function can lead to increased uracil blood levels. Consequently, there
 is an increased risk for incorrect diagnosis of DPD deficiency, which may result in under
 dosing of 5-Fluorouracil or other fluoropyrimidines, leading to reduced treatment
 efficacy. Genotype testing for DPD deficiency should be considered for patients with renal
 impairment.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Regular tests:
  FBC, liver and renal profile prior to each cycle
  Evaluate for peripheral neuropathy every 2 cycles
  Post treatment: monthly electrolytes, magnesium, calcium for 2 months after last cetuximab
 treatment

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant
  Consider a reduced starting dose in patients with identified partial DPD deficiency
 o Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of treatment
 o In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring
  Cetuximab or FOLFOX-6 therapy may be delayed independently of each other and dosing may
 continue with either component but consideration should be given to the timings of further
 treatment
  The following dose reductions should be used when calculating FOLFOX-6 dose reductions for
 patients with toxicities (Table 1)

 Table 1: Dose reduction levels for all toxicity
 Dose Level 0 Dose Level -1 Dose Level -2 Dose Level -3
 2 2 2
 Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m 65 mg/m 50 mg/m Discontinue
 Folinic Acid (Calcium 400 mg/m2 400 mg/m2 400 mg/m2 Discontinue
 Leucovorin)
 5-Fluorouracil bolus 400 mg/m2 320 mg/m2 260 mg/m2 Discontinue
 2 2
 5-Fluorouracil infusion 2400 mg/m 1900 mg/m 1500 mg/m2 Discontinue
 Note: Folinic acid is delayed or omitted if bolus 5-Fluorouracil is delayed or omitted

 Haematological:
 Table 2. Dose modifications for FOLFOX-6 for haematological toxicity
 TOXICITY Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Prior to a Cycle (DAY 1) Grade ANC Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
 (x 109/L)
  If ANC< 1.5 on Day 1 of cycle, hold 1 ≥ 1.5 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 treatment, weekly FBC, maximum of 4 2 1.0-1.49 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 weeks 3 0.5-0.99  1 dose level Maintain dose level
  ANC ≥ 1.5 within 4 weeks, proceed with 4 <0.5  1 dose level Omit bolus and 1
 treatment at the dose level noted across infusion dose level
 from the lowest ANC result of the delayed
 week(s).
  If ANC remains <1.5 after 4 weeks
 discontinue treatment
 Grade Platelets Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
 (x109/L)
 1 ≥ 75 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
 2 50-74.9 Maintain dose level Maintain dose level
NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

  If platelets < 75 on Day 1 of cycle, hold 3 10-49.9  1 dose level Maintain dose level
 treatment, weekly FBC, maximum of 4 4 <10  2 dose levels Maintain dose level
 weeks.
  Platelets ≥ 75 within 4 weeks, proceed with
 treatment at the dose level noted across
 from the lowest platelets result of the
 delayed week(s).
  If platelets remain <75 after 4 weeks
 discontinue treatment.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Recommended dose modification in renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal impairment Hepatic impairment
 Cetuximab a No need for dose adjustment is No need for dose adjustment is expected.
 expected.

 Haemodialysis: No need for
 dose adjustment is expected.
 Oxaliplatin b CrCl Dose No dose adjustment is needed.
 (mL/min)
 ≥30 No dose
 adjustment is
 needed
 <30 Consider 50% of
 the original dose
 Haemodialysis: Consider 50% of
 the original dose.
 Haemodialysis within 90
 minutes after administration.
 5-Fluorouracil c No need for dose adjustment is Bilirubin (micromol/L) AST Dose
 expected.
 <85 <180 100%

 Haemodialysis: No need for >85 or >180 Contraindicated
 dose adjustment is expected. Clinical decision.
 Moderate hepatic impairment; reduce initial dose by 1/3.
 Severe hepatic impairment, reduce initial dose by 1/2.
 Increase dose if no toxicity.
 a Cetuximab (renal and hepatic - Giraud et al 2023);
 b Oxaliplatin (renal and hepatic – Giraud et al 2023);
 c 5-Fluorouracil (renal – Giraud et al 2023; hepatic – NLCN 2009)

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Management of adverse events:
Table 4: Dose modification of cetuximab based on adverse events
 Adverse reaction Recommended dose modification
 Infusion Reaction
 Grade 1 Continue slow infusion under close supervision.

 Grade 2 Continue slow infusion and immediately administer treatment for symptoms.

 Grade 3 and 4 Stop infusion immediately, treat symptoms vigorously and contraindicate further
 use of cetuximab
 Interstitial lung disease Discontinue
 Skin reaction grade 1 or 2 No dosage adjustment required. See local skin care policy for the prevention and
 treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions.

 Severe skin reaction ≥ grade 3*

 First occurrence Hold cetuximab treatment for a maximum of 2 weeks.
 Reinitiate therapy only if reaction has resolved to grade 2 at 500mg/m2.

 Second occurrence Hold cetuximab treatment for a maximum of 2 weeks.
 Reinitiate therapy only if reaction has resolved to grade 2 at 400mg/m2.

 Third occurrence Hold cetuximab treatment for a maximum of 2 weeks.
 Reinitiate therapy only if reaction has resolved to grade 2 at 300mg/m2.

 Fourth occurrence Discontinue
* See other supportive care section below

 Table 5: Dose modification for FOLFOX-6 schedule based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions Recommended dose modification
 *Peripheral neuropathy
 Grade 2 present at start of cycle Reduce oxaliplatin by 1 dose level
 Grade 3
  First occurrence  1 dose level
  2 occurrence
 nd  1 dose level
  Persistent Discontinue oxaliplatin
 Grade 4 Discontinue oxaliplatin
 Laryngopharyngeal dysaethesia Increase infusion time from 2 to 6 hrs
 Stomatitis Delay treatment until stomatitis reaches level of grade 1 or less

 Unexplained respiratory symptoms e.g. Non- Discontinue oxaliplatin until interstitial disease or pulmonary
 productive cough, dyspnoea, crackles or radiological fibrosis excluded.
 pulmonary infiltrates
 *Neuropathy may be partially or wholly reversible after discontinuation of therapy; patients with good recovery from Grade 3 (not Grade 4)
 neuropathy may be considered for re- challenge with oxaliplatin, with starting dose one level below that which they were receiving when
 neuropathy developed.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

Table 6: Dose modification of Modified FOLFOX-6 for diarrhoea
 TOXICITY Dose Level for Subsequent Cycles
 Prior to a Cycle (DAY 1) Grade Diarrhoea Oxaliplatin 5-Fluorouracil
  If diarrhoea greater than or equal 1 Increase of 2-3 stools/day, Maintain dose Maintain dose level
 to Grade 2 on Day 1 of cycle, hold or mild increase in loose level
 treatment. Perform weekly watery colostomy output
 checks, maximum 4 times. 2 Increase of 4-6 stools, or Maintain dose Maintain dose level
  If diarrhoea is less than Grade 2 nocturnal stools or mild level
 within 4 weeks, proceed with increase in loose watery
 treatment at the dose level noted colostomy output
 across from the highest Grade 3 Increase of 7-9 stools/day or Maintain dose 1 dose level
 experienced. incontinence, level of IV push and
  If diarrhoea remains greater than malabsorption; or severe infusional 5-
 or equal to Grade 2 after 4 increase in loose watery Fluorouracil
 weeks, discontinue treatment. colostomy output
 4 Increase of 10 or more  1 dose level 1 dose level
 stools/day or grossly bloody of IV push and
 colostomy output or loose infusional 5-
 watery colostomy output Fluorouracil
 requiring parenteral
 support; dehydration

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL
 Cetuximab: Low (Refer to local policy).
 Oxaliplatin: Moderate (Refer to local policy).
 5-Fluorouracil: Low (Refer to local policy).

 PREMEDICATIONS:
 Patients must receive premedication with an antihistamine and a corticosteroid at least one hour before
 receiving cetuximab infusion. This premedication is recommended prior to all subsequent infusions.

Table 7: Suggested pre-medications prior to cetuximab infusion:
 Drugs Dose Route

 Chlorphenamine 10mg IV bolus 60 minutes prior to cetuximab infusion

 dexAMETHasone 8mg IV bolus 60 minutes prior to cetuximab infusion

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  See local skin care policy for the prevention and treatment of EGFR-inhibitor adverse skin reactions
 (Refer to local policy).
  Anti-diarrhoeal treatment (Refer to local policy).

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.

 Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated aggressively.

Cetuximab:
  Infusion-related reactions (IRR):
 o The first dose should be administered slowly and the speed must not exceed 5 mg/min whilst
 all vital signs are closely monitored for at least two hours. If during the first infusion, an infusion-
 related reaction occurs within the first 15 minutes, the infusion should be stopped. A careful
 benefit/risk assessment should be undertaken including consideration whether the patient may
 have preformed IgE antibodies before a subsequent infusion is given.
 o If an IRR develops later during the infusion or at a subsequent infusion further management will
 depend on its severity (Ref Table 4).
 o In cases of mild or moderate IRR , the infusion rate may be decreased and maintained at the
 lower rate in all subsequent infusions.
 o Severe IRR may occur with symptoms usually occurring during the first infusion and up to 1 hour
 after the end of the infusion. They may occur several hours after or with subsequent infusions.
 Patients should be warned of the possibility of such a late onset and instructed to contact their
 physician if symptoms occur.
 o Occurrence of a severe IRR requires immediate and permanent discontinuation of cetuximab
 therapy and may necessitate emergency treatment.
 o Special attention is recommended for patients with reduced performance status and pre-
 existing cardio-pulmonary disease.
  Respiratory disorders: Interstitial lung disease has been observed with EGRF inhibitors. Treatment
 should be withheld in the event of onset or worsening respiratory symptoms. If pneumonitis or lung
 infiltrates are confirmed, treatment should be discontinued.
  Cardiovascular: An increased frequency of severe and sometimes fatal cardiovascular events and
 treatment emergent deaths has been observed. When prescribing cetuximab, the cardiovascular and
 performance status of the patients and concomitant administration of cardiotoxic compounds such as
 fluoropyrimidines should be taken into account.
  Skin reactions: This is the main adverse reaction of cetuximab. Refer to local policy for skin care regime
 and to Table 4 under Dose Modifications for management of treatment if patient experiences skin
 reactions.
  Electrolyte disturbances: Hypomagnesaemia, hypokalaemia or hypocalcaemia may occur. Electrolyte
 repletion is recommended, as appropriate.

Oxaliplatin:
  Platinum Hypersensitivity: Special surveillance should be ensured for patients with a history of allergic
 manifestations to other products containing platinum. In case of anaphylactic manifestations, the
 infusion should be interrupted immediately and an appropriate symptomatic treatment started. Re-
 administration of oxaliplatin to such patients is contraindicated.
  Laryngopharyngeal dysesthesia: An acute syndrome of pharyngolaryngeal dysesthesia occurs in 1-2%
 of patients and is characterised by subjective sensations of dysphagia or dyspnoea/feeling of
 suffocation, without any objective evidence of respiratory distress (no cyanosis or hypoxia) or of
 laryngospasm or bronchospasm. Symptoms are often precipitated by exposure to cold. Although
 antihistamines and bronchodilators have been administered in such cases, the symptoms are rapidly
NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 reversible even in the absence of treatment. Prolongation of the infusion helps to reduce the incidence
 of this syndrome.
  Extravasation: Oxaliplatin causes irritation if extravasated (Refer to local policy).
  Venous occlusive disease: A rare but serious complications that has been reported in patients (0.02%)
 receiving oxaliplatin in combination with 5-Fluorouracil. This condition can lead to hepatomegaly,
 splenomegaly, portal hypertension and/or esophageal varices. Patients should be instructed to report
 any jaundice, ascites or hematemesis immediately.
  Haemolytic Ureamic Syndrome (HUS): Oxaliplatin therapy should be interrupted if HUS is suspected:
 hematocrit is less than 25%, platelets less than 100,000 and creatinine greater than or equal to 135
 micromol/L. If HUS is confirmed, oxaliplatin should be permanently discontinued.

5-Fluorouracil:
  Gastrointestinal toxicity: Patients treated with 5-Fluorouracil should be closely monitored for diarrhoea
 and managed appropriately.
  Myocardial ischaemia and angina: Cardiotoxicity is a serious complication during treatment with 5-
 Fluorouracil. Patients, especially those with a prior history of cardiac disease or other risk factors,
 treated with 5-Fluorouracil, should be carefully monitored during therapy.
  DPD deficiency: DPD is an enzyme encoded by the DPYD gene which is responsible for the breakdown
 of fluoropyrimidines. Patients with DPD deficiency are therefore at increased risk of fluoropyrimidine-
 related toxicity, including for example stomatitis, diarrhoea, mucosal inflammation, neutropenia and
 neurotoxicity. Treatment with 5-Fluorouracil, capecitabine or tegafur-containing medicinal products is
 contraindicated in patients with known complete DPD deficiency. Consider a reduced starting dose in
 patients with identified partial DPD deficiency. Initial dose reduction may impact the efficacy of
 treatment. In the absence of serious toxicity, subsequent doses may be increased with careful
 monitoring. Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of 5-Fluorouracil may improve clinical outcomes in
 patients receiving continuous 5-Fluorouracil infusions.
  Hand-foot syndrome, HFS, also known as palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia (PPE), has been reported
 as an unusual complication of high dose bolus or protracted continuous therapy for 5-Fluorouracil.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  When cetuximab is used in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy, it may result in increased
 frequency of severe leukopenia or severe neutropenia.
  When cetuximab is used in combination with fluoropyrimidines, the frequency of palmar-plantar
 erythrodysaesthesia and of cardiac ischaemia including myocardial infarction and congestive heart
 failure were increased.
  When cetuximab is used in combination with capecitabine and oxaliplatin, the frequency of severe
 diarrhoea may be increased.
  Marked elevations of prothrombin time and INR have been reported in patients stabilised on warfarin
 therapy following initiation of 5-Fluorouracil regimes.
  Concurrent administration of 5-Fluorouracil and phenytoin may result in increased serum levels of
 phenytoin.
  5-Fluorouracil is contraindicated in combination with brivudin, sorivudin and analogues as these are
 potent inhibitors of the 5-Fluorouracil metabolising enzyme DPD.
  Caution should be taken when using 5-Fluorouracil in conjunction with medications which may affect
 DPD activity.
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

REFERENCES:
 1. Venook AP et al. Effect of First-Line Chemotherapy Combined With Cetuximab or Bevacizumab on
 Overall Survival in Patients With KRAS Wild-Type Advanced or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer: A
 Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA. 2017 Jun 20;317(23):2392-2401. doi: 10.1001/jama.2017.7105.
 PMID: 28632865; PMCID: PMC5545896.
 2. Giraud E L, Lijster B D, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients with renal or
 hepatic impairment: an update. Available at:
 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470-2045(23)00216-4/fulltext
 3. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network
 4. HPRA Direct Healthcare Professional Communication. 5-Fluorouracil (i.v.), capecitabine and tegafur
 containing products: Pre-treatment testing to identify DPD-deficient patients at increased risk of
 severe toxicity. Accessed Aug 2020 Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/docs/default-source/default-
 document-library/important-safety-information-from-marketing-authorisation-holders-of-
 products-containing-5-fluorouracil-(i-v-)-capecitabine-and-tegafur-as-approved-by-the-
 hpra.pdf?sfvrsn=0
 5. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V5 2023. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 6. Cetuximab (Erbitux®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated 25/05/2022. Accessed
 Nov 2023. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/erbitux-
 epar-product-information_en.pdf
 7. Oxaliplatin. Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 11/10/2022. Accessed Nov 2023.
 Available at: https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2059-049-
 001_11102022125814.pdf
 8. Fluorouracil 50 mg/mL solution. Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 10/11/2023.
 Accessed Nov 2023. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2315-091-
 001_10112023121636.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 08/09/2022 Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed.
 Updated treatment table footnotes; exclusion
 2 17/01/2024 criteria; Added cetuximab pre-medication table; Prof Maccon Keane
 Updated Hepatic and Renal dose modifications in
 line with Giraud et al 2023.
 Additional wording added to baseline testing
 2a 03/03/2025 NCCP
 section.
 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i This is an unlicensed posology for the use of cetuximab in Ireland. Patient’s should be informed of this and consented

 to treatment in line with the hospital’s policy on the use of unlicensed medication and unlicensed or “off label”
 indications. Prescribers should be fully aware of their responsibility in communicating any relevant information to the
 patient and also ensuring that the unlicensed or “off label” indication has been acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs
 and Therapeutics Committee, or equivalent, in line with hospital policy.’

NCCP Regimen: Cetuximab and FOLFOX-6 Published: 08/09/2022
 Version number: 2a
(modified) Therapy Review: 17/01/2029
Tumour Group: Gastrointestinal ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00733
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsiblity of the prescribing clinician and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
