NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 High Dose Melphalan Conditioning Therapy for
 Autologous Stem Cell Transplant
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 Conditioning Therapy in patients with Multiple Myeloma prior to C90 00454a Melphalan: Hospital
 autologous stem cell transplant
 Conditioning Therapy in patients with other plasma cell dyscrasia E85 00454b Melphalan: Hospital
 such as AL amyloidosis

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.
 Note:
  Hydration therapy required for safe administration of melphalan ( See Table 1 below)
  Short expiry time of melphalan, ensure to organize timings with pharmacy

 Table 1: Treatment table
 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate
 a,b,c
 -2 Melphalan 200mg/m2/day IV Give as an IV push over 30 minutes via side-arm of a fast-
 running NaCl 0.9% infusion
 0 Stem cell infusion ( minimum 24 hours post melphalan infusion)
 +5 G-CSF 5mcg/kg sc Starting +5 (until ANC > 1.0 x 109/L for two consecutive
 (Round to nearest days)
 whole syringe)
 a
 When reconstituted melphalan has a very short expiry time.
 (Refer to local policy for guidance on stability and shelf life to co-ordinate administration with pharmacy
 compounding)
 b
 Ensure excretion of melphalan by use of appropriate hydration therapy (Refer to local policy or see suggested
 hydration here)
 0.9% NaCl given at a rate of 125ml/m 2/hr for 2 hours pre-melphalan and 6 hours post-melphalan 10mmol K+ may
 be added to each 1L of fluid. The patient should also be recommended to drink a minimum of 2L. Consider
 additional IV fluids if a patient is unable to drink adequate fluids.
 c
 Maintain strict fluid balance during therapy, by (1) monitoring fluid balance and (2) daily weights. If fluid balance
 becomes positive by >1000mls or weight increases by >1 Kg, the patient should be reviewed and consideration
 given to diuresing with furosemide

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to melphalan or any of the excipients
  Pregnancy

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Haematologist working in the area of
 haematological malignancies
NCCP Regimen: High Dose Melphalan Conditioning Published: 31/08/2018
 Version number: 2
Therapy for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Review: 16/09/2026
Tumour Group: Transplant IHS Contributor: Dr K Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00454
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Uric acid, LDH
  Creatinine Clearance
  Coagulation screen
  Cardiac Function : ECG, ECHO
  Pulmonary Function tests
  Virology screen -Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBcoreAb), Hepatitis C, HIV I and II, CMV and HSV.
 *Hepatitis B reactivation: See Adverse events/ Regimen specific complications

 Regular tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile required daily

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of melphalan in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Cr Cl (ml/min) Dose No dose changes recommended
 2
 30-50 140mg/m
 <30 Clinical Decision

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL: High (Refer to local policy).

PREMEDICATIONS: Prior to stem cell infusion administer pre-medications as per local policy.

OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
  PJP prophylaxis (Refer to local policy) Do not give Co-trimoxazole until engraftment achieved
 and continue until day 100 or CD4 count> 200/microlitre.
  Proton Pump Inhibitor (Refer to local policy)
  Mouthcare (Refer to local policy)
  Anti-viral prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Anti-fungal prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
  Anti-bacterial prophylaxis ( Refer to local policy)
  All patients must receive irradiated cellular blood components starting one week prior to
 conditioning and until 3 months after stem cell infusion to prevent transfusion associated graft
 versus host disease

NCCP Regimen: High Dose Melphalan Conditioning Published: 31/08/2018
 Version number: 2
Therapy for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Review: 16/09/2026
Tumour Group: Transplant IHS Contributor: Dr K Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00454
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS
The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
details.

  Neutropenia: Fever or other evidence of infection must be assessed promptly and treated
 aggressively.
  Thrombocytopenia: Support with platelet transfusion may be required.
  Hepatitis B Reactivation: All patients for stem cell transplantation should be tested for both HBsAg
 and HBcoreAb as per local policy. If either Hepatitis B test is positive, such patients should be treated
 with anti-viral therapy. (Refer to local infectious disease policy). These patients should be
 considered for assessment by hepatology.
  Mucositis: Management is usually conservative with pain killer, hydration and treatment of
 secondary infection

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

REFERENCES:

 1. Lahuerta JJ, Martinez-Lopez J, Grande C, et al. Conditioning regimens in autologous
 stem cell transplantation for multiple myeloma: A comparative study of efficacy and
 toxicity from the Spanish Registry for transplantation in multiple myeloma. Br J
 Haematol 2000;109(1):138-47.
 2. Moreau P, Facon , Attal M. et al. Comparison of 200 mg/m2 melphalan and 8 Gy total body
 irradiation plus 140 mg/m2 melphalan as conditioning regimens for peripheral blood stem cell
 transplantation in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: final analysis of the
 Intergroupe Francophone du Myelome 9502 randomized trial. Blood2002;99(3):731-735.
 3. Badros A, Barlogie B et al. Results of autologous stem cell transplant in multiple myeloma patients
 with renal failure. British Journal of Haematology, 2001; 114: 822-829.
 4. Moreau P et al. Comparison of 200 mg/m2 melphalan and 8 Gy total body irradiation plus 140
 mg/m2 melphalan as conditioning regimens for peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in
 patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: final analysis of the Intergroupe Francophone du
 Mye´lome 9502 randomized trial. Blood 2002 99:731-735.
 5. Attal M et al. Lenalidomide, Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone with Transplantation for Myeloma N
 Engl J Med 2017; 376:1311-1320
 6. Guidelines on the use of irradiated blood components prepared by the British Committee for
 Standards in Haematology blood transfusion task force 2010. Available at;
 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1365-2141.2010.08444.x
 7. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer
 Network. Available at http://londoncancer.org/media/65594/hepatic-impairment-dosage-
 adjustment-for-cytotoxics.pdf
 8. Alkeran Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed March 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA1691-004-
 001_14112019130102.pdf
NCCP Regimen: High Dose Melphalan Conditioning Published: 31/08/2018
 Version number: 2
Therapy for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Review: 16/09/2026
Tumour Group: Transplant IHS Contributor: Dr K Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00454
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 9. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V3 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 31/08/2018 Dr Kamal Fadalla
 Regimen review
 Updated emetogenic potential
 2 16/09/2021 Dr Kamal Fadalla
 Updated wording regarding
 management of hepatitis B reactivation

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: High Dose Melphalan Conditioning Published: 31/08/2018
 Version number: 2
Therapy for Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Review: 16/09/2026
Tumour Group: Transplant IHS Contributor: Dr K Fadalla

NCCP Regimen Code: 00454
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
