NCCP National SACT Regimen

 BCG Intravesical Induction and Maintenance Therapy
INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen HSE approved
 INDICATION ICD10 Code reimbursement
 status*
 Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer – very high risk, high risk and C67, 00807a N/A
 intermediate risk groups C68
 * This is for post 2012 indications.

TREATMENT:
Induction BCG:
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is administered by instillation into the bladder intravesically once weekly for
6 weeks.
Maintenance BCG:
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is administered by instillation into the bladder intravesically at the intervals
listed below.

High risk/ Very high risk: Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is administered by instillation into the bladder
weekly for 3 consecutive weeks at 3, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36 months*.

Intermediate risk: Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) is administered by instillation into the bladder weekly for
3 consecutive weeks at 3, 6, 12 months*.
*(Above indicates the ideal duration of maintenance treatment but may vary based on patient factors, tolerance and
BCG availability).

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate
 1 Bacillus Calmette-Guérin One vial Intravesical Diluted in NaCl 0.9% up to 50mL.
 (BCG)a Administer instillation into bladder via catheter
 (dwell time of 1-2 hours)
 aBrand selection based on product availability and clinician’s decision.

 BCG strain: The strain and supplier may change from time to time. A patient would ideally receive all induction and
 maintenance therapy with the same strain, but switching strains is recommended if necessary to ensure administration of full
 dose according to conventional dosing schedule.

 NCCP Regimen: BCG Intravesical Induction Published: 22/04/2025
 Version number: 2
 and Maintenance Therapy Review: 06/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary Contributors: Ms Catherine Dowling Page 1 of 4
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00807
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • Risk groups* defined as:
 Intermediate Risk Patients without carcinoma in situ (CIS) who are not included in either the
 low-, high-, or very high-risk groups
 High Risk • All T1 high grade (HG)/G3 without CIS, EXCEPT those included in the
 very high-risk group
 • All CIS patients, EXCEPT those included in the very high-risk group
 Stage, grade with additional clinical risk factors:
 • Ta low grade (LG)/G2 or T1G1, no CIS with all 3 risk factors
 • Ta HG/G3 or T1 LG, no CIS with at least 2 risk factors
 • T1G2 no CIS with at least 1 risk factor
 Very High Risk Stage, grade with additional clinical risk factors:
 • Ta HG/G3 and CIS with all 3 risk factors
 • T1G2 and CIS with at least 2 risk factors
 • T1 HG/G3 and CIS with at least 1 risk factor
 • T1 HG/G3 no CIS with all 3 risk factors
 *EAU NMIBC Risk Calculator available here: https://nmibc.net/

EXCLUSIONS:
 • TURBT or urethral trauma within 2 weeks
 • Hypersensitivity to BCG or any of the excipients.
 • Pregnancy and Breastfeeding

CAUTIONS:
 • T-cell immunodeficiency (idiopathic CD4 lymphopenia, HIV with CD4 count 200-350, CLL
 • B-cell /Antibody immunodeficiencies
 • Severe G6PD deficiency
 • Current or recent immunosuppressive treatment (steroids, mycophenolate, azathioprine,
 Sirolimus, methotrexate, Tacrolimus)
 • History of systemic chemotherapy agents such as riTUXimab, cycloPHOSphamide.

PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Urologist.

 NCCP Regimen: BCG Intravesical Induction Published: 22/04/2025
 Version number: 2
 and Maintenance Therapy Review: 06/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary Contributors: Ms Catherine Dowling Page 2 of 4
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00807
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

TESTS:
 Pre treatment:
  Cystoscopy with biopsy or resection to confirm histologic diagnosis
 Post treatment:
  Cystoscopy +/- biopsy (GA) and urine cytology 8 weeks after the last dose of BCG and at regular
 intervals thereafter

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant Urologist.

DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with the Consultant Urologist.

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
  There are no known published dose modification recommendations available for renal and hepatic
 impairment. Given that this is a localised treatment and is expected to have limited or no systemic
 absorption there is unlikely to be a dose modification in this setting.

SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:

  There are no known published recommendations available for emetogenic potential. Given that this is
 a localised treatment and is expected to have limited or no systemic absorption it is unlikely that anti-
 emetic cover is required in this setting.

PRE-MEDICATIONS: None usually required.

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 Patient education.

  To assist dwell time and reduce dilution of the BCG the patient should not drink any fluids over a
 period of 4 hours before the instillation and until 2 hours after the instillation.

 NCCP Regimen: BCG Intravesical Induction Published: 22/04/2025
 Version number: 2
 and Maintenance Therapy Review: 06/10/2026
 Tumour Group: Genitourinary Contributors: Ms Catherine Dowling Page 3 of 4
 NCCP Regimen Code: 00807
 The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
 approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
 individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
 subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

ADVERSE EFFECTS
  Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for details.
  Please refer to the 2025 European Association of Urology (EAU) NMIBC guidelines for further
 information.

DRUG INTERACTIONS:
  Current SmPC and drug interaction databases should be consulted for information.

REFERENCES:
 1. EAU Guidelines on Non-muscle invasive Bladder Cancer (TaT1 and CIS). Last updated March 2025.
 Available at: https://d56bochluxqnz.cloudfront.net/documents/full-guideline/EAU-Guidelines-on-
 Non-muscle-invasive-Bladder-Cancer-2025.pdf

 2. BCG-medac®, powder and solvent for intravesical suspension. Last updated December 2023.
 Accessed January 2025. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0623-004-
 001_30092024155729.pdf

 3. BCG LIVE-TICE ® (for intravesical use). Last updated August 2022. Available at:
 https://www.merck.com/product/usa/pi_circulars/t/tice_bcg/ticebcg_pi.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By

 1 22/04/2025 Ms Catherine Dowling
 2 06/10/2025 References updated, addition of link to EAU NMIBC Ms Catherine Dowling
 risk calculator

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

NCCP Regimen: BCG Intravesical Induction Published: 22/04/2025
 Version number: 2
and Maintenance Therapy Review: 06/10/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary Contributors: Ms Catherine Dowling Page 4 of 4
NCCP Regimen Code: 00807
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
