NCCP National SACT Regimen

 R-CEOP Therapy – 21 days

 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code status
 Treatment of Non Hodgkin CD20 positive Lymphoma for patients not C85 00510a Hospital
 suitable for anthracycline therapy

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed above may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 Treatment is administered every 21 days as described in the treatment table below.
 Patients with limited stage disease receive 3-4 cycles of chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy;
 patients with advanced stage disease receive 6 cycles of chemotherapy unless disease progression or
 unacceptable toxicity develops.
 Facilities to treat anaphylaxis MUST be present when systemic anti-cancer therapy (SACT) is administered.

 Day Drug Dose Route Diluent & Rate
 IV infusion1
 500mL 0.9% NaCl at a maximum rate of
 1 riTUXimab 375mg/m2 Observe post
 400mg/hr1
 infusion
 1 cycloPHOSphamide 750mg/m2 IV infusion2 250mL 0.9% NaCl over 30 minutes
 1 Etoposide 50mg/m2 IV infusion 500mL 0.9% NaCl over 60 minutes
 1.4mg/m2
 1 vinCRIStine3 IV infusion 50mL minibag 0.9% NaCl over 15 minutes
 (Max 2mg)
 Take on an empty stomach.
 2-3 Etoposide 100mg/m2 PO
 Round dose to the nearest 50mg.
 1-5 prednisoLONE 100mg(*) PO
 1 See table 1:Guidance for administration of riTUXimab
 2 cycloPHOSphamide may also be administered as an IV bolus over 5-10 mins
 3vinCRIStine is a neurotoxic chemotherapeutic agent.

 Refer to NCCP Guidance on the Safe Use of Neurotoxic drugs (including Vinca Alkaloids) in the treatment of cancer. Available
 on the NCCP website
 *Alternative steroid regimens may be used at consultant discretion

NCCP Regimen:R-CEOP Therapy- Published: 15/02/2019
 Version number:2a
21 days Review: 03/02/2026
Tumour Group: Lymphoma IHS Contributor: Dr Derville O’Shea Page 1 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00510 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Table 1: Guidance for administration of riTUXimab

 The recommended initial rate for infusion is 50 mg/hr; after the first 30 minutes, it can be escalated in 50 mg/hr increments
 every 30 minutes, to a maximum of 400 mg/hr.
 Subsequent infusions can be infused at an initial rate of 100 mg/hr, and increased by 100 mg/hr increments at 30 minute
 intervals, to a maximum of 400 mg/hr.
 Development of an allergic reaction may require a slower infusion rate. See Hypersensitivity/Infusion reactions under Adverse
 Effects/Regimen Specific Complications below.
 Any deviation from the advised infusion rate should be noted in local policies.
 Recommended observation period: Patients should be observed for at least six hours after the start of the first infusion and for
 two hours after the start of the subsequent infusions for symptoms like fever and chills or other infusion-related symptoms. Any
 deviation should be noted in local policies
 riTUXimab should be diluted to a final concentration of 1-4mg/mL.
 Rapid rate infusion schedulei See NCCP guidance Available on the NCCP website .
 If patients did not experience a serious infusion related reaction with their first or subsequent
 infusions of a dose of riTUXimab administered over the standard infusion schedule, a more rapid infusion can be administered
 for second and subsequent infusions using the same concentration as in previous infusions. Initiate at a rate of 20% of the total
 dose for the first 30 minutes and then 80% of the dose for the next 60 minutes (total infusion time of 90 minutes). If the more
 rapid infusion is tolerated, this infusion schedule can be used when administering subsequent infusions.
 Patients who have clinically significant cardiovascular disease, including arrhythmias, or previous serious infusion reactions to
 any prior biologic therapy or to riTUXimab, should not be administered the more rapid infusion.

 ELIGIBILITY:
 • Indications as above
 • ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
 • Hypersensitivity to cyclophosphamide, riTUXimab, vinCRIStine sulphate, etoposide or any of the
 excipients.

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist or Consultant Haematologist working
 in the area of haematological malignancies.

 TESTS:
 Baseline tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile
 • LDH, blood glucose, Uric Acid, B2M, Immunoglobulins and SPEP
 • Consider cardiac function tests
 • Virology screen -Hepatitis B (HBsAg, HBcoreAb) & C, HIV.
 *See Adverse Effects/Regimen Specific Complications re Hepatitis B Reactivation

NCCP Regimen:R-CEOP Therapy- Published: 15/02/2019
 Version number:2a
21 days Review: 03/02/2026
Tumour Group: Lymphoma IHS Contributor: Dr Derville O’Shea Page 2 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00510 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 Regular tests:
 • FBC, renal and liver profile prior to each cycle
 • LDH prior to each cycle
 • Evaluate for peripheral neuropathy prior to each cycle.

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as directed
 by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
 • Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
 • No dose reductions of riTUXimab are recommended.
 • Consider vinCRIStine dose reduction in elderly patients

 Haematological:

 Table 2: Dose modification for haematological toxicity
 ANC ( x 109/L) Platelets ( x 109/L) Dose
 <1 and/or <75 Dose modification not generally indicated.
 Consider treatment delay and/or add G-CSF

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 3: Dose modifications based on renal and hepatic impairment
 Drug Renal impairment Hepatic impairment
 riTUXimab No dose adjustment No dose adjustment necessary
 necessary
 cycloPHOSphamide CrCl Dose
 (mL/min) Severe impairment: Clinical Decision
 >20 100%
 10-20 75%
 <10 50%
 vinCRIStine No dose reduction required Bilirubin AST/ALT Dose
 (micromol/L)
 26-51 or 60-180 50%
 >51 and Normal 50%
 >51 and >180 Omit
 Etoposide CrCl Dose Total Bilirubin AST Dose
 (mL/min) (micromol/L)
 >50 100% 26-51 or 60-180 50%

NCCP Regimen:R-CEOP Therapy- Published: 15/02/2019
 Version number:2a
21 days Review: 03/02/2026
Tumour Group: Lymphoma IHS Contributor: Dr Derville O’Shea Page 3 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00510 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 15-50 75% >51 or >180 Clinical
 decision
 <15 50%
 Subsequent doses should be
 based on clinical response

 Neurotoxicity:

 Table 4: Dose modification of vinCRIStine based on neurotoxicity (CTCAE v4.0)
 Symptom Dose of VinCRIStine
 Grade 1 100%
 Grade 2 Hold until recovery then reduce dose by 50%
 Grade 3,4 Omit

 Table 5: Dose modification schedule of riTUXimab based on adverse events
 Adverse reactions Discontinue Recommended dose modification
 Severe infusion related reaction Interrupt infusion immediately. Evaluate for
 (e.g dyspnoea, bronchospasm, cytokine release/tumour lysis syndrome
 hypotension or hypoxia) (appropriate laboratory tests) and pulmonary
 First occurrence infiltration (chest x -ray). Infusion may be
 restarted on resolution of all symptoms,
 normalisation of laboratory values and chest x-
 ray findings at no more than one-half the
 previous rate.

 Consider coverage with steroids for those who
 Second occurrence Consider are not already receiving steroids.
 discontinuing
 treatment
 Mild or moderate infusion- Reduce rate of infusion. The infusion rate may be
 related reaction increased upon improvement of symptoms

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL:
 • As outlined in NCCP Classification Document for Systemic AntiCancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting Available on
 the NCCP website

 riTUXimab: Minimal (Refer to local policy)
 cycloPHOSphamide: Moderate (Refer to local policy)
 Etoposide (IV): Low (Refer to local policy)
 Etoposide (oral): Minimal to low (Refer to local policy)
 vinCRIStine: Minimal (Refer to local policy)
NCCP Regimen:R-CEOP Therapy- Published: 15/02/2019
 Version number:2a
21 days Review: 03/02/2026
Tumour Group: Lymphoma IHS Contributor: Dr Derville O’Shea Page 4 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00510 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 For information:
 Within NCIS regimens, antiemetics have been standardised by the Medical Oncologists and Haemato-oncologists and information is
 available in the following documents:
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Medical Oncology) - Available on the NCCP website
 • NCCP Supportive Care Antiemetic Medicines for Inclusion in NCIS (Haemato-oncology) - Available on the NCCP website

 PREMEDICATIONS:
 • Premedication consisting of an anti-pyretic and an anti-histamine should always be administered before
 each infusion of riTUXimab.

 Table 5: Suggested pre-medications prior to riTUXimab infusion:
 Drugs Dose Route

 Paracetamol 1g PO 60 minutes prior to riTUXimab infusion

 Chlorphenamine 10mg IV bolus 60 minutes prior to riTUXimab infusion
 Ensure glucocorticoid component of the treatment regimen (Prednisolone) is given at least 30 minutes
 prior to riTUXimab infusion
 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE:
 • Tumour lysis syndrome prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
 • Proton pump Inhibitor(Refer to local policy)
 • PJP prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
 • Anti-viral prophylaxis (Refer to local policy)
 • Anti-fungal prophylaxis (Avoid the concurrent use of azoles and vinCRIStine (2)) (Refer to local policy)
 • Prophylactic regimen against vinCRIStine induced constipation is recommended (Refer to local policy).
 • G-CSF prophylaxis may be required, please discuss with consultant

 ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS

 The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full details.
 • Hypersensitivity/Infusion Reactions: Close monitoring is required throughout the first infusion of
 riTUXimab. (Refer to local policy). RiTUXimab can cause allergic type reactions during the IV infusion
 such as hypotension, wheezing, rash, flushing, pruritis, sneezing, cough, fever or faintness.
 • Cardiac Disorders: Patients with a history of cardiac disease and/or cardiotoxic chemotherapy should be
 monitored closely while on riTUXimab.
 • Neuropathy: VinCRIStine may cause peripheral neuropathy which is dose related and cumulative,
 requiring monitoring before each dose is administered. The presence of pre-existing neuropathies or
 previous treatment with other neurotoxic drugs may increase risk of peripheral neuropathy. Patients
 with mild peripheral neuropathy can usually continue to receive full doses of vinCRIStine, but when
 symptoms increase in severity and interfere with neurologic function, dose reduction or discontinuation
 of the drug may be necessary. The natural history following discontinuation of treatment is gradual
NCCP Regimen:R-CEOP Therapy- Published: 15/02/2019
 Version number:2a
21 days Review: 03/02/2026
Tumour Group: Lymphoma IHS Contributor: Dr Derville O’Shea Page 5 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00510 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 improvement, which may take up to several months.
 • Constipation: A routine prophylactic regimen against constipation is recommended for all patients
 receiving vinCRIStine sulphate. Paralytic ileus may occur. The ileus will reverse itself upon temporary
 discontinuance of vinCRIStine and with symptomatic care.
 • Extravasation: vinCRIStine causes pain and possible tissue necrosis if extravasated. (Refer to local
 policy).
 • Severe Cytokine Release syndrome: Usually occurs within 1 to 2 hours of initiating the first infusion.
 This syndrome may be associated with some features of tumour lysis syndrome such as hyperuricaemia,
 hyperkalaemia, hypocalcaemia, hyperphosphatemia, acute renal failure, elevated lactate
 dehydrogenase (LDH) and may be associated with acute respiratory failure and death. Pulmonary
 interstitial infiltrates or oedema visible on chest x-ray may accompany acute respiratory failure.
 For severe reactions, stop the infusion immediately and evaluate for tumour lysis syndrome and
 pulmonary infiltration. Aggressive symptomatic treatment is required. The infusion can be resumed at
 no more than one-half the previous rate once all symptoms have resolved, and laboratory values and
 chest x-ray findings have normalized.
 • Hepatitis B Reactivation: Patients should be tested for both HBsAg and HBcoreAb as per local policy. If
 either test is positive, such patients should be treated with anti-viral therapy. (Refer to local infectious
 disease policy). These patients should be considered for assessment by hepatology.
 • Please Refer to NCCP regimen 00542 riTUXimab 375 mg/m2 Combination Therapy-21 day for detailed
 information on adverse reactions/Regimen Specific Complications associated with riTUXimab Therapy

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 • Antihypertensives: Additive effect of hypotension during riTUXimab infusion. Consider withholding
 antihypertensives 12 hours before and during riTUXimab infusion.
 • Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information including potential for
 interactions with CYP3A4 inhibitors/inducers

 REFERENCES:
 1. Moccia A et al. R-CHOP with Etoposide Substituted for Doxorubicin (R-CEOP): Excellent Outcome in Diffuse
 Large B Cell Lymphoma for Patients with a Contraindication to Anthracyclines. Blood 2009 114:408;
 2. Vinca alkaloids + Azoles. Stockley’s Drug Interactions 11th Edition
 3. vinCRIStine Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Jan 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA0822-232-001_15102020091031.pdf
 4. cycloPHOSphamide (Endoxana®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Jan 2021.Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2299-027-002_21122018112109.pdf
 5. riTUXimab (MabThera®) Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Jan 2021. Available at:
 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/mabthera-epar-product-
 information_en.pdf

NCCP Regimen:R-CEOP Therapy- Published: 15/02/2019
 Version number:2a
21 days Review: 03/02/2026
Tumour Group: Lymphoma IHS Contributor: Dr Derville O’Shea Page 6 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00510 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
 NCCP National SACT Regimen

 6. Etoposide Summary of Product Characteristics Accessed Jan 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hpra.ie/img/uploaded/swedocuments/Licence_PA2059-036-001_29072019103821.pdf
 7. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Renal Impairment January 2009; North London Cancer Network.
 8. Dosage Adjustment for Cytotoxics in Hepatic Impairment January 2009;North London Cancer Network.
 9. Krens S D, Lassche,Jansman G F G A, et al. Dose recommendations for anticancer drugs in patients
 with renal or hepatic impairment. Lancet Onco/2019; 20:e201-08. https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-
 2045(19)30145-7
 10. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and Vomiting.
 V6 2025. Available at: https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-
 classification-document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 29/01/2019 Dr Derville O’Shea
 2 03/02/2021 Updated treatment (etoposide infusion Prof Maccon Keane
 volume), dose modification in hepatic
 impairment, vinCRIStine dose modification in
 neurotoxicity, emetogenic potential, adverse
 effects (hepatitis B reactivation)
 2a 22/01/2026 Updated emetogenic potential section with NCCP
 added links.

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 i
 The rapid infusion is an unlicensed means of administration of riTUXimab for the indications described above, in
 Ireland. Patient’s should be informed of this and consented to treatment in line with the hospital’s policy on the
 use of unlicensed medication and unlicensed or “off label” indications. Prescribers should be fully aware of their
 responsibility in communicating any relevant information to the patient and also ensuring that the unlicensed or
 “off label” means of administration has been acknowledged by the hospital’s Drugs and Therapeutics Committee,
 or equivalent, in line with hospital policy.

NCCP Regimen:R-CEOP Therapy- Published: 15/02/2019
 Version number:2a
21 days Review: 03/02/2026
Tumour Group: Lymphoma IHS Contributor: Dr Derville O’Shea Page 7 of 7
NCCP Regimen Code: 00510 ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPSACTregimens
