NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 PAZOPanib Therapy
 INDICATIONS FOR USE:
 Regimen Reimbursement
 INDICATION ICD10 Code Status
 First line treatment of advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) in adults and for C64 00445a CDS
 patients who have received prior cytokine therapy for advanced disease.
 Treatment of adult patients with selective subtypes of advanced Soft Tissue C49 00445b CDS
 Sarcoma (STS) who have received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease
 or who have progressed within 12 months after (neo) adjuvant therapy.

 TREATMENT:
 The starting dose of the drugs detailed below may be adjusted downward by the prescribing clinician, using their
 independent medical judgement, to consider each patients individual clinical circumstances.

 PAZOPanib is taken once daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity develops
 (1 cycle=4weeks).

 Drug Dose Route Cycle
 PAZOPanib 800mg once daily PO Continuous

 PAZOPanib is available as 200mg and 400mg film-coated tablets
 These should be taken whole with water and not broken or crushed
 Take without food at least one hour before or two hours after a meal

 ELIGIBILITY:
  Indications as above
  ECOG 0-2

 EXCLUSIONS:
  Hypersensitivity to PAZOPanib or to any of the excipients
  Severe hepatic impairment (bilirubin > 3 x ULN)

 PRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY:
 The treatment plan must be initiated by a Consultant Medical Oncologist.

 Published: 23/10/2017
NCCP Regimen: PAZOPanib Monotherapy Version number: 3
 Review: 09/09/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary/Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00445
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 TESTS:

 Baseline tests:
  FBC, renal and liver profile
  Blood pressure
  ECG
  MUGA/ECHO if clinically indicated
  Thyroid Function

 Regular tests:
  LFTs at weeks 3, 5, 7 and 9 and then at months 3 and 4, with additional tests as clinically
 indicated. Periodic testing should then continue after month 4.
  FBC and renal profile monthly
  Blood pressure weekly for first 4 weeks and then monthly or as clinically indicated
  Thyroid function tests every 12 weeks
  Cardiac function as clinically indicated
  Pulmonary function as clinically indicated

 Disease monitoring:
 Disease monitoring should be in line with the patient’s treatment plan and any other test/s as
 directed by the supervising Consultant.

 DOSE MODIFICATIONS:
  Any dose modification should be discussed with a Consultant.
  Dose modification should be in 200mg decrements or increments in a stepwise fashion based
 on individual tolerability in order to manage adverse reactions.
  The dose of PAZOPanib should not exceed 800mg.

 Haematological:
 Table 1: Dose modification of PAZOPanib for haematological toxicity
 9 9
 ANC (x10 /L) Platelets (x10 /L) Dose
 ≥1 and ≥ 75 100%
 <1 or <75 Delay

 Published: 23/10/2017
NCCP Regimen: PAZOPanib Monotherapy Version number: 3
 Review: 09/09/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary/Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00445
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 Renal and Hepatic Impairment:
 Table 2: Dose modification of PAZOPanib in renal and hepatic impairment
 Renal Impairment Hepatic Impairment
 Cr Cl (ml/min) Dose Bilirubin Dose
 ≥30 100% ≤ 1.5 x ULN 800mg and monitor LFTs closely
 <30 Caution is advised as there is no 1.5-3 x ULN 200mg and monitor LFTs closely
 experience of PAZOPanib in this
 patient population. >3 x ULN Contra-indicated

 Management of adverse events:
 Table 3: Dose Modification of PAZOPanib for Non-Haematological Toxicity
 CTC-Grade Dose
 1-2 100%
 3-4 Delay until less than or equal to grade 1
 Dose reduce by 1 dose level

 Table 4: Dose modifications for PAZOPanib induced hepatotoxicity
 Liver test values Dose modification
 Transaminase elevation between 3 and 8 x ULN Continue on PAZOPanib with weekly monitoring of liver function
 until transaminases return to Grade 1 or baseline.
 Transaminase elevation of >8 x ULN Interrupt PAZOPanib until transaminases return to Grade 1 or
 baseline.
  If the potential benefit for reinitiating PAZOPanib treatment
 is considered to outweigh the risk for hepatotoxicity, then
 reintroduce PAZOPanib at a reduced dose of 400mg daily and
 measure serum liver tests weekly for 8 weeks.
  Following reintroduction of PAZOPanib, if transaminase
 elevations > 3 x ULN recur, then PAZOPanib should be
 permanently discontinued.
 Transaminase elevations >3 x ULN concurrently Permanently discontinue PAZOPanib.
 with bilirubin elevations >2 x ULN Patients should be monitored until return to Grade 1 or baseline.
 PAZOPanib is a UGT1A1 inhibitor.
 Mild, indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinaemia may occur in
 patients with Gilbert’s syndrome.
 Patients with only a mild indirect hyperbilirubinaemia, known or
 suspected Gilbert’s syndrome, and elevation in ALT > 3 x ULN
 should be managed as per the recommendations outlined for
 isolated ALT elevations.

 Published: 23/10/2017
NCCP Regimen: PAZOPanib Monotherapy Version number: 3
 Review: 09/09/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary/Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00445
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

 SUPPORTIVE CARE:

 EMETOGENIC POTENTIAL: Minimal - Low (Refer to local policy).

 PREMEDICATIONS: Not usually required

 OTHER SUPPORTIVE CARE: No specific recommendations

 ADVERSE EFFECTS / REGIMEN SPECIFIC COMPLICATIONS:
 The adverse effects listed are not exhaustive. Please refer to the relevant Summary of Product Characteristics for full
 details.
  Hepatic effects: Cases of hepatic failure (including fatalities) have been reported during use of
 PAZOPanib. Administration of PAZOPanib to patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment
 should be undertaken with caution and close monitoring. PAZOPanib is not recommended in patients
 with severe hepatic impairment (total bilirubin > 3 x ULN regardless of any level of ALT) Exposure at
 a 200mg dose is markedly reduced, though highly variable, in these patients with values considered
 insufficient to obtain a clinically relevant effect. In clinical studies with PAZOPanib, increase in serum
 transaminases (ALT, aspartate aminotransferase [AST]) and bilirubin were observed). In the majority
 of the cases, isolated increases in ALT and AST have been reported, without concomitant elevations
 of alkaline phosphatase or bilirubin. Patients over 60 years of age may be at greater risk for mild
 (>3xULN) to severe (>8xULN) elevation of ALT. Patients who carry the HLA-B*57:01 allele have an
 increased risk of PAZOPanib-associated ALT elevations. Liver function should be monitored in all
 subjects receiving PAZOPanib, regardless of genotype or age (see Regular Tests).
  Hypertension: Patients with hypertension should exercise caution while on PAZOPanib. Blood
 pressure should be well controlled prior to initiating treatment. Treatment with PAZOPanib should
 be discontinued if there is evidence of hypertensive crisis or if hypertension is severe and persists
 despite anti-hypertensive therapy and PAZOPanib dose reduction.
  Cardiotoxicity: The risks and benefits of PAZOPanib should be considered before beginning therapy
 in patients who have pre-existing cardiac dysfunction. The safety and pharmacokinetics of
 PAZOPanib in patients with moderate to severe heart failure or those with a below normal LVEF has
 not been studied. Patients should be carefully monitored for clinical signs or symptoms of congestive
 heart failure. Baseline and periodic evaluation of LVEF is recommended in patients at risk of cardiac
 dysfunction. QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes have also been reported. PAZOPanib should
 be used with caution in patients with any relevant cardiac history, or those taking anti-arrhythmics
 or other medicines that may prolong the QT interval. Ensure electrolytes are maintained within
 normal range. When using PAZOPanib, base line and periodic monitoring of electrocardiograms and
 maintenance of electrolytes (e.g. calcium, magnesium, potassium) within normal range is
 recommended.
  Muscle pain: Myalgias and muscle spasms can occur in patients treated with PAZOPanib
  Hypothyroidism: Thyroid dysfunction, in particular hypothyroidism, may occur with this
 treatment. Patients with hypothyroidism should be treated as per standard medical practice prior to
 the start of PAZOPanib treatment. Monitor for signs and symptoms of thyroid dysfunction and
 manage as clinically appropriate.

 Published: 23/10/2017
NCCP Regimen: PAZOPanib Monotherapy Version number: 3
 Review: 09/09/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary/Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00445
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
 NCCP Chemotherapy Regimen

  Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD)/Pneumonitis: ILD, which can be fatal, has been reported in association
 with PAZOPanib Monitor patients for pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis and
 discontinue PAZOPanib in patients developing ILD or pneumonitis.

 DRUG INTERACTIONS:
 Concomitant treatment with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4, P-glycoprotein (P-gp) or breast cancer
 resistance protein (BCRP) should be avoided due to risk of increased exposure to PAZOPanib. Selection
 of alternative concomitant medicinal products with no or minimal potential to inhibit CYP3A4, P-gp or
 BCRP should be considered.
 Concomitant treatment with inducers of CYP3A4 should be avoided due to risk of decreased exposure
 to PAZOPanib.
 Concomitant administration of PAZOPanib with uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase 1A1
 (UGT1A1) substrates (e.g. irinotecan) should be undertaken with caution since PAZOPanib is an
 inhibitor of UGT1A1.
 Current drug interaction databases should be consulted for more information.

 REFERENCES:
 1. Sternberg CN, Davis ID, Mardiak J et al. PAZOPanib in locally advanced or metastatic renal cell
 carcinoma: results of a randomized phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1061-1068.
 2. van der Graaf WT, Blay JY et al. PAZOPanib for metastatic soft-tissue sarcoma (PALETTE): a
 randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial. Lancet. 2012;379(9829):1879.
 3. NCCP Classification Document for Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapy (SACT) Induced Nausea and
 Vomiting. V3 2021. Available at:
 https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/chemoprotocols/nccp-classification-
 document-for-systemic-anti-cancer-therapy-sact-induced-nausea-and-vomiting.pdf
 4. PAZOPanib (Votrient®) Summary of Product Characteristics. Last updated: 28/07/2021. Accessed
 Sept 2021. Available at: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/votrient-
 epar-product-information_en.pdf

 Version Date Amendment Approved By
 1 23/10/2017 Prof Maccon Keane
 Reviewed. Update of emetogenic
 2 23/10/2019 Prof Maccon Keane
 potential
 Reviewed. Amended Adverse Effects
 3 09/09/2021 Prof Maccon Keane
 (hypothyroidism)

 Comments and feedback welcome at oncologydrugs@cancercontrol.ie.

 Published: 23/10/2017
NCCP Regimen: PAZOPanib Monotherapy Version number: 3
 Review: 09/09/2026
Tumour Group: Genitourinary/Sarcoma ISMO Contributor: Prof Maccon Keane

NCCP Regimen Code: 00445
The information contained in this document is a statement of consensus of NCCP and ISMO or IHS professionals regarding their views of currently accepted
approaches to treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult these documents is expected to use independent medical judgement in the context of
individual clinical circumstances to determine any patient's care or treatment. Use of these documents is the responsibly of the prescribing clinician. and is
subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
 This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check www.hse.ie/NCCPchemoregimens
