NTRK GENE FUSION TESTING GUIDANCE

Version Date published Amendment Approved By
1 19/09/2022 NCCP NTRK Testing Working
 Group
2 29/11/2023 Updated NGS overview NCCP Molecular Diagnostics
 Link to MAP included Advisory Group
3 23/09/2024 Clarification on reimbursement approval NCCP Molecular Diagnostics
 application to MMP and generation of Advisory Group
 prescription on high tech hub
Table of Contents
 1 Summary ....................................................................................................................1
 2 Background ................................................................................................................1
 3 NTRK inhibitors ...........................................................................................................2
 4 NTRK Testing Methods ................................................................................................2
 4.1 Immunohistochemistry (IHC) .......................................................................................3
 4.2 Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) .....................................................................3
 4.3 Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)...........................................3
 4.4 Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) .............................................................................4
 5 NTRK gene fusion testing algorithm proposal...............................................................4
 6 Eligibility criteria for treatment with NTRK-inhibitors ...................................................7
 7 References..................................................................................................................8
 Appendix 1. Membership of NCCP NTRK Testing Working Group ..............................................9
 1 Summary
 The aim of this document is to provide guidance on neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) gene
 fusion testing. The scope of this document includes testing of both adult and paediatric patients with a
 diagnosis of any solid tumour who are eligible to have their tumour tested for this genetic variant. The
 NTRK gene fusion testing algorithm developed considers
 o Stage of disease
 o NTRK gene fusion prevalence likely in that cancer type
 o Availability of treatment options including current standard of care1
 o Current NGS panel testing available in country or outsourced abroad

 It is anticipated that the development of a HSE Test Directory will supersede this guidance in the future.

 2 Background
 Neurotropic tropomysoin-related kinases (NTRKs) constitute a receptor kinase family of neurotropin
 receptors involved in neuronal development. The tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK) family contains 3
 members—TRKA, TRKB, and TRKC— and these proteins are encoded by the genes NTRK1, NTRK2, and
 NTRK3, respectively. Each of the three NTRK genes can combine with any one of numerous fusion partners
 and lead to the formation of oncogenic proteins. These oncogenic proteins result in aberrant cell signalling
 and thereby drive the formation of malignancies. To date, 25 different gene fusions involving NTRKs have
 been identified (1).

 NTRK gene fusions have been identified in a variety of solid tumours, affecting both adults and children.
 However, the prevalence of these gene fusions varies considerably. It occurs rarely (less than 1%) in
 common tumours such as lung, colorectal and breast while some rare tumour types have more than 90%

 1
 a satisfactory SoC is defined as a SoC significantly improving patient outcome as determined by efficacy (ORR, OS), duration of
 response (DOR, PFS), time to response, safety, and QoL.

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 1
 NTRK fusion prevalence (e.g. mammary analogue secretory carcinoma and infantile fibrosarcoma) (2). The
 prognostic effect of NTRK gene fusions across all tumour types is as yet unknown.

 3 NTRK inhibitors
 Two medicines are currently licensed by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of NTRK gene
 fusion tumours as detailed below; larotrectinib and entrectinib
  Entrectinib as monotherapy for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients 12 years of age and
 older with solid tumours expressing a neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) gene fusion,
 and who have a disease that is locally advanced, metastatic or where surgical resection is likely to
 result in severe morbidity, and who have not received a prior NTRK inhibitor and have no
 satisfactory treatment options
  Larotrectinib for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients with solid tumours that display
 NTRK gene fusion, who have a disease that is locally advanced, metastatic or where surgical
 resection is likely to result in severe morbidity, and who have no satisfactory treatment options

 Larotrectinib and entrectinib are positioned as a last-line treatment option where the alternative is best
 supportive care.

 4 NTRK Testing Methods
 There are several techniques available to detect NTRK gene fusions including screening by
 immunohistochemistry (IHC), fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) and reverse transcriptase
 polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in addition to next generation sequencing (NGS), each with different
 advantages and disadvantages. IHC is relatively inexpensive but there are differences in specificity
 depending on tumour type and it has a lower sensitivity for NTRK3 fusions (79.4%) compared to RNA based
 NGS (3).

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 2
 4.1 Immunohistochemistry (IHC)
 IHC indicates the presence of a TRK protein but does not clarify whether a fusion is actually present. It can
 therefore be used as an upstream screening tool for common tumour entities that rarely bear NTRK gene
 fusions, or have high endogenous TRK expression. In addition, immunohistochemistry seems to have
 variable specificity according to tumour type. While the antibody appears to have 100% specificity in
 carcinomas of the colon, lung, thyroid, pancreas and biliary tract, decreased specificity is seen in breast and
 salivary gland carcinomas, as cytoplasmic staining can occasionally be seen. Specificity is lower in sarcomas,
 particularly those with neural or smooth muscle differentiation as wild-type TRK protein is physiologically
 expressed in neural and smooth muscle tissue (4). Thus, tumours with neural or smooth muscle
 differentiation should not be screened via pan-TRK IHC for NTRK fusion (5).

 While IHC is relatively inexpensive in terms of reagent cost there is potential for significant training costs
 associated with establishing and validating this testing across different tumour types and the additional
 pathologist time involved in interpreting the stains.

 4.2 Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH)
 Fluorescence in-situ hybridization is a highly sensitive DNA-based assay that identifies oncogenic fusions
 using either break-apart probes or fusion probes. This testing method is relatively inexpensive and widely
 available in clinical laboratories, with a short turnaround time of typically 1–3 days.

 Each FISH assay evaluates a single NTRK gene, so three separate slides are required to assess NTRK1, NTRK2,
 and NTRK3 fusions. Development of FISH multiprobes that can simultaneously target all 3 NTRK genes will
 likely reduce the time and resources needed for testing.

 4.3 Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)
 Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction detects gene fusion RNA transcripts and can be qualitative
 and potentially quantitative. This technique is relatively inexpensive and the results take approximately
 one week. An important limitation of RT-PCR in NTRK fusion testing is that it is a targeted assay, designed
 to detect specific fusion partners and involving specific breakpoints within these, thus similarly to FISH,
 additional rounds of testing may be needed and detection of novel/alternative fusions may fail. This
 approach can be considered for tumour histologies with known fusion partners, such as detection of ETV6–

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 3
 NTRK3 fusions in infantile fibrosarcoma or secretory breast cancers, where the majority of cases will bear
 the usual diagnosis-associated fusions.

 4.4 Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)
 With an NGS method NTRK gene fusion detection occurs at the nucleic acid level and not at the protein
 level as with IHC.
 Depending on the type of sample (DNA or RNA), and the library preparation technology, NGS based testing
 can have distinct advantages in terms of analytical sensitivity and specificity. As an example RNA-based
 amplicon library preparation can have very high analytical specificity but does require that fusion partners
 are known in advance, this might mean that novel fusions are less likely to be detected with this approach.
 Where NGS methodology is employed for screening for NTRK fusions it is important that the limitations of
 the assay are clearly stated on the report. NGS is associated with higher cost compared with IHC and FISH
 testing and is not as widely available. The results generally take 2–4 weeks.

 5 NTRK gene fusion testing algorithm proposal
 The aim of NTRK gene fusion testing is to identify patients who may benefit from treatment with NTRK
 inhibitors. It is the responsibility of:
  the treating Consultant Medical Oncologist to ensure the patient’s tumour is suitable for NTRK gene
 fusion testing and that NTRK-inhibitors do not displace any effective therapies for their solid
 tumour
 o The licensed indications for both entrectinib and larotrectinib are for treatment of disease
 that is locally advanced, metastatic or where surgical resection is likely to result in severe
 morbidity, where patients have no alternative satisfactory treatment options.

  clinical laboratories in Irish public hospitals to ensure that there is a pathway for NTRK testing
 locally or externally that allows for timely testing of patients should an NTRK inhibitor be approved
 for reimbursement by the HSE for the above indications.

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 4
 Histology based triaging should first be carried out to separate the rare cancer subtypes that have high
 NTRK gene fusion prevalence from those that have a low prevalence of NTRK gene fusions. Table 1 below
 summarises the proposed algorithm for NTRK gene fusion testing for given cancer types. It details the
 recommended time of testing and testing method considering
 o Stage of disease
 o NTRK gene fusion prevalence likely in that cancer type
 o Availability of treatment options including current standard of care2
 o Current NGS panel testing available in- country or outsourced abroad

 It is anticipated that the ongoing work in the development of a national HSE test directory will supersede
 this guidance in the future.

 2
 a satisfactory SoC is defined as a SoC significantly improving patient outcome as determined by efficacy (ORR, OS), duration of
 response (DOR, PFS), time to response, safety, and QoL.

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 5
 Table 1 NTRK gene fusion testing algorithm
 Solid Tumour Type When to test Recommended Test *Testing Access
 Method
 High Frequency NTRK gene fusion tumours
 Congenital mesoblastic nephroma (CMN) At diagnosis RNA based NGS a Yes - CHI at Crumlin

 Infantile Fibrosarcoma a Yes - CHI at Crumlin

 Secretory breast carcinoma a Yes - SJH/Beaumont /CUH

 Mammary analogue secretory carcinoma a Yes – SJH/Beaumont /CUH

 (MASC) of salivary gland
 Intermediate Frequency NTRK gene fusion tumours
 Thyroid Cancers - unresectable or At diagnosis Paediatric- RNA based NGS Yes - CHI at Crumlin (Paediatric)
 Adult- in absence of panel aAdults – yes at SJH/Beaumont/CUH on
 metastatic/advanced patients
 testing in thyroid cancer request
 screening with IHC and
 subsequent confirmation
 with RNA based NGS where
 TRK expression is detected by
 IHC or results are inconclusive
 Paediatric glioma (low and high grade) At diagnosis NTRK testing using RNA based a Yes – outsourced to GOSH

 NGS is recommended SJH currently provide NTRK service when
 requested a
 Expected Beaumont Q2 2023
 Spitzoid neoplasms At diagnosis NTRK testing using RNA based a
 Yes can be included going forward at CHI at
 NGS is recommended
 Crumlin (Paediatric) a
 bInclude on existing melanoma panels

 Low frequency NTRK gene fusion (<5%) with limited treatment options where knowledge of NTRK status is of clinical benefit / where disease
 progression or relapse occurs
 Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs)- At diagnosis Include NTRK testing on the aInclude opportunistically on existing panel
 standard of care GIST panel.
 where SACT is indicated
 Testing using IHC is not
 recommended due to lack of
 specificity
 Adult Gliomas (high grade) At diagnosis RNA based detection test aYes – outsourced to GOSH

 IHC not recommended for aSJH currently provide NTRK service when
 screening requested
 . CUH
 Expected Beaumont Q2 2023
 Soft tissue Sarcoma At diagnosis RNA based detection test a
 Yes - CHI at Crumlin (Paediatric)
 IHC not recommended due aAdult - Include opportunistically on existing
 to reduced specificity and panel
 sensitivity for IHC analysis
 Low frequency NTRK gene fusion (<5%)

 Advanced Lung, Colorectal Cancer and At diagnosis Consideration should be Include opportunistically on existing panel
 given to the inclusion of NTRK
 Melanomab
 on the existing lung,
 colorectal and melanoma
 NGS panels
 Other solid tumours a
 Yes can be included going forward at CHI at
 Serial testing IHC screening (except where Crumlin (Paediatric) a
  No previous NGS panel testing
 after first IHC not indicated due to

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 6
 testing for reduced specificity and
 other more sensitivity) and subsequent
 common confirmation with RNA based
 clinically NGS where TRK expression is
 actionable detected by IHC or results
 oncogenic are inconclusive
 drivers and
 treatment
 options
 remaining for
 the patient.

 Bioinformatics
  Previous NGS panel testing and NTRK review for
 NTRK analysis
 not reported
 of original
 panel test if
 appropriate
 should be
 carried out
 aCentralised funding not provided

 bCentralised panel funding in place in SJH/Beaumont

 *Based on information available to NCCP on 08/09/2022. It is acknowledged that hospitals may have existing agreements in place
 for cancer molecular diagnostics with other external laboratories

 6 Eligibility criteria for treatment with NTRK-inhibitors
 Patients are eligible for consideration for treatment with an NTRK inhibitor where all the following criteria
 are met;
  Presence of an NTRK gene fusion without a known acquired resistance mutation
 is identified using a validated test method
  Meets the eligibility criteria of the NCCP national chemotherapy regimen for NTRK inhibitor (s)
 available here3

 Applications for reimbursement approval for NTRK gene fusion therapies (i.e. entrectinib or larotrectinib)
 under the High Tech Arrangement will only be considered from consultant medical oncologists registered
 with the Irish Medical Council, who have agreed to the terms of this MAP available here and who have
 been approved by the HSE (‘approved consultants’).

 3
 The list of cancer drugs approved for reimbursement by the HSE are available here

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 7
 Approved consultants are responsible for ensuring that the patient or their representative/guardian is
 aware that the application for reimbursement approval is being made on their behalf.

 If a patient is recommended for reimbursement by the MMP, the High Tech prescription should be
 generated on the High Tech Hub (HTH). The prescribing of NTRK gene fusion therapies for approved
 patients under the High Tech Arrangement will be confined to the approved consultants and their teams.
 The governance of the team on the High Tech Hub, including access, rests with the approved consultant

 7 References

 1. Marchiò C, et al. ESMO recommendations on the standard methods to detect NTRK fusions in
 daily practice and clinical research. Ann Oncol. 2019;30:1417–1427.
 2. NICE Technology Appraisal Guidance ta 630 Larotrectinib for treating NTRK fusion-positive solid
 tumours 27 May 2020 https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ta630/resources/larotrectinib-for-
 treating-ntrk-fusionpositive-solid-tumours-pdf-82609071004357
 3. Hechtman et al. NTRK insights:best practices for pathologists. Mol. PAthol 2022 ;35 (3):298-305
 4. Solomon et al. Identifying patients with NTRK fusion Cancer. Annals of Oncol 2019;30 (supplement
 8): 6-12.
 5. Solomon, J. P. & Hechtman, J. F. Detection of NTRK fusions: merits and limitations
 of current diagnostic platforms. Cancer Res. 2019;79: 3163–3168.

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 8
 Appendix 1. Membership of NCCP NTRK Testing Working Group

 Professor Ray McDermott Consultant Medical Oncologist (Chair)
 Dr Michael Capra Consultant Medical Oncologist
 Dr Jane Cryan Consultant Neuropathologist

 Dr Mark Doherty Consultant Medical Oncologist
 Dr Brendan Doyle Consultant Histopathologist , Faculty of Pathology
 Representative
 Professor Stephen Finn Consultant Histopathologist
 Professor Maeve Lowery Consultant Medical Oncologist
 Professor Patrick Morris Consultant Medical Oncologist
 Professor Maureen O’Sullivan Consultant Paediatric Pathologist

Use of this document is the responsibility of the user and is subject to HSE’s terms of use available at http://www.hse.ie/eng/Disclaimer
This information is valid only on the day of printing, for any updates please check https://www.hse.ie/eng/services/list/5/cancer/profinfo/medonc/sactguidance/

NCCP Guidance Document 0034– NTRK Gene Fusion Published: 29/11/2023 Version: 3
Testing Guidance Review: 23/09/2027

 9
